The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See Manila hemp under Manila. 
Backward against the mast;-said of the sails when pressed by the wind. Totten. To be taken aback. (a) To be driven backward against the mast; -- said of the sails, also of the ship when the sails are thus driven. (b) To be suddenly checked, baffled, or discomfited. Dickens. 
An abacus. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
The rhinoceros. [Obs.] Purchas. 
Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. Abaft the beam. See under Beam. 
Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft. 
Abashed; confounded; discomfited. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured against. 
See Abnet. 
A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest. 
Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the wings turned downward towards the point of the shield. 
He who, or that which, abases. 
To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit. Abashed, the devil stood, And felt how awful goodness is. Milton. He was a man whom no check could abash. Macaulay. 
Inability to coördinate muscular actions properly in walking. - - A*ba"sic (#), a. 
(a) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with; as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ. (b) (Eng. Law) To diminish; to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in proportion, upon a deficiency of assets. To abate a tax, to remit it either wholly or in part. 
Abatement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
One who, or that which, abates. 
(a) One who abates a nuisance. (b) A person who, without right, enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee. Blackstone. 
Astonished; abashed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay. [Obs.] 
Among weaves, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for the abb. 
Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops to the patriarch. 
The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot. 
The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress. 
A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have over the monks. See Abbey. 
The state or office of an abbot. 
A religious devotee or dervish in Persia. 
Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a Mohammedan rite. Heyse. 
To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different part. [Obs.] If we abduce the eye unto either corner, the object will not duplicate. Sir T. Browne. 
The movement which separates a limb or other part from the axis, or middle line, of the body. 
On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side. 
Behavior. [Obs.] Blackstone. 
Same as Aby. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The white polar (Populus alba). Six abeles i' the churchyard grow. Mrs. Browning. 
To wander; to stray. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commission of an offense. 
Act of abetting; aid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies. 
To protest against; to reject solemnly. [Obs.] I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul Refuse you for my judge. Shak. 
To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary or averse; -- with from. [Obs.] "To abhor from those vices." Udall. Which is utterly abhorring from the end of all law. Milton. 
The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity this month was called Nisan. Kitto. 
To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for. Dearly I abide that boast so vain. Milton. 
Continuing; lasting. 
A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to this genus. 
3d sing. pres. of Abide. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; to debase. [Obs.] Donne. 
A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a castaway. [Obs.] Shall these abjects, these victims, these outcasts, know any thing of pleasure I. Taylor. 
To renounce on oath. Bp. Burnet. 
The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation; as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung. Earle. 
Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able to inherit or devise property. 
An adjective suffix now usually in a passive sense; able to be; fit to be; expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense; as, movable, able to be moved; amendable, able to be amended; blamable, fit to be blamed; salable. 
comp. of Able. -- A"blest, a., 
Perhaps. [Scot.] 
In or into bloom; in a blooming state. Masson. 
To be unlike; to differ. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
Blushing; ruddy. 
In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned, said. 
The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer. 
On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within a railway car. 
An omen; a portending. [Obs.] 
of Abide. 
An omen. [Obs.] High-thundering Juno's husband stirs my spirit with true abodes. Chapman. 
To bode; to foreshow. [Obs.] Shak. 
To be ominous. [Obs.] Dryden. 
A large South American serpent (Boa aboma). 
and adv. Above. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Aboon the pass of Bally-Brough. Sir W. Scott. The ceiling fair that rose aboon. J. R. Drake. 
Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth. 
Manner of approaching or accosting; address. Chesterfield. 
To approach; to accost. [Obs.] Digby. 
To become checked in normal development, so as either to remain rudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile. 
Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normal development at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches. The eyes of the cirripeds are more or less aborted in their mature state. Owen. 
On the point or verge of; going; in act of. Paul was now aboutto open his mouth. Acts xviii. 14. 
The largest hammer used by smiths. Weale. 
Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick, concealment, or deception. "Fair and aboveboard." Burke. 
Braced aback. 
A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa; the mouth of a cañon. [Southwestern U. S.] 
To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to abrade rocks. Lyell. 
Same as Abraid. [Obs.] 
To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Rubbed smooth. [Obs.] "An abrase table." B. Jonson. 
See Abraid. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Capable of being abrogated. 
In the act of brooding. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft. 
To brook; to endure. [Obs.] Shak. 
Suddenly terminating, as if cut off. Gray. 
An abrupt place. [Poetic] "Over the vast abrupt." Milton. 
To tear off or asunder. [Obs.] "Till death abrupts them." Sir T. Browne. 
Pertaining to absence. [Obs.] 
See Apsis. 
To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist. [Obs.] Raleigh. 
The state or quality of being absorbable. Graham (Chemistry). 
To consume gradually; to waste away. [Obs.] Boyle. 
Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an absurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream. This proffer is absurd and reasonless. Shak. 'This phrase absurd to call a villain great. Pope. p. 9 
An absurdity. [Obs.] Pope. 
The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church. 
In a bursting condition. 
Full of abuse; abusive. [R.] "Abuseful names." Bp. Barlow. 
One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb]. 
To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet; -- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road. 
In a buzz; buzzing. [Colloq.] Dickens. 
An abyss; a gulf. "The abysm of hell." Shak. 
The center of an escutcheon. 
A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors, as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals. 
The inspissated juice of several species of acacia; -- called also gum acacia, and gum arabic. 
One of the Acalephæ. 
Same as Acanthus. 
A genus including many species of small mites. 
See Caterer. [Obs.] 
See Cates. [Obs.] 
The act of acceding. 
To set on fire; to kindle. [Obs.] Fotherby. 
Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse. 
Without accent. 
To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept a bill of exchange. Bouvier. 
Accepted. [Obs.] Shak. 
In the manner of an accessary. 
To cite; to summon. [Obs.] Our heralds now accited all that were Endamaged by the Elians. Chapman. 
To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; to burden. See Cloy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To coil together. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
An agreement between parties in controversy, by which satisfaction for an injury is stipulated, and which, when executed, bars a suit. Blackstone. With one accord, with unanimity. They rushed with one accord into the theater. Acts xix. 29. 
Agreement; harmony; conformity. "In strict accordance with the law." Macaulay. 
To adjoin; to lie alongside. [Obs.] "The shores which to the sea accost." Spenser. 
Address; greeting. [R.] J. Morley. 
The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation. 
Something that accrues; advantage accruing. [Obs.] 
To recline, as at table. [Obs.] Bailey. 
Accusation. [Obs.] Shak. 
to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; - - with of; as, to accuse one of a high crime or misdemeanor. Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me. Acts xxiv. 13. We are accused of having persuaded Austria and Sardinia to lay down their arms. Macaulay. 
The potter's field, said to have lain south of Jerusalem, purchased with the bribe which Judas took for betraying his Master, and therefore called the field of blood. Fig.: A field of bloodshed. The system of warfare . . . which had already converted immense tracts into one universal aceldama. De Quincey. 
Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharp and harsh. 
Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid. Ure. 
A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidation of alcohol under the influence of platinum black. 
The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting, or of becoming converted, into vinegar. 
A combination of acetic acid with glycerin. Brande & C. 
Methyl ketol; also, any of various homologues of the same. 
A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts of carbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Its hydroxide is acetic acid. 
An agate. [Obs.] Evelyn. 
Provisions. Same as Cates. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Continued pain, as distinguished from sudden twinges, or spasmodic pain. "Such an ache in my bones." Shak. 
To suffer pain; to have, or be in, pain, or in continued pain; to be distressed. "My old bones ache." Shak. The sins that in your conscience ache. Keble. 
See Achæan, Achaian. 
That aches; continuously painful. See Ache. -- Ach"ing*ly, adv. The aching heart, the aching head. Longfellow. 
One of a class of compounds, generally but not always distinguished by their sour taste, solubility in water, and reddening of vegetable blue or violet colors. They are also characterized by the power of destroying the distinctive properties of alkalies or bases, combining with them to form salts, at the same time losing their own peculiar properties. They all contain hydrogen, united with a more negative element or radical, either alone, or more generally with oxygen, and take their names from this negative element or radical. Those which contain no oxygen are sometimes called hydracids in distinction from the others which are called oxygen acids or oxacids. 
Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic. an acidic solution. 
Sourly; tartly. 
One of the granular masses which constitute a racemose or compound gland, as the pancreas; also, one of the saccular recesses in the lobules of a racemose gland. Quain. 
Confessedly. 
The crisis or height of a disease. 
A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in the sebaceous glands. 
An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coördinates satisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered as belonging to the curve. 
In a cocked or turned up fashion. 
Cold. [Obs.] "Poor Tom's acold." Shak. 
Relieving weariness; restorative. 
A cone-shaped piece of wood on the point of the spindle above the vane, on the mast-head. 
Acquitted; set free; rid of. [Archaic] Shak. 
Acquittal. [Obs.] Milton. 
Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce. 
Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition; as, large-acred men. 
The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness; acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech. 
The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system has been observed. 
Acritan. Owen. 
Sharpness; keenness. [Obs.] 
Crookedly. [R.] Udall. 
From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a direction opposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river. Dryden. To come across, to come upon or meet incidentally. Freeman. -- To go across the country, to go by a direct course across a region without following the roads. 
Pertaining to, or characterized by, acrostics. 
Capable of being acted. Tennyson. 
Of or pertaining to actinism; as, actinic rays. 
Effective motion; also, mechanism; as, the breech action of a gun. 
In an active signification; as, a word used actively. 
A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacket plated with mail. [Spelled also hacqueton.] [Obs.] Halliwell. Sir W. Scott. 
Something actually received; real, as distinct from estimated, receipts. [Cant] The accounts of revenues supplied . . . were not real receipts: not, in financial language, "actuals," but only Egyptian budget estimates. Fortnightly Review. 
Action. [Obs.] Shak. 
To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken. [Obs.] "[To] acuate the blood." Harvey. 
Sharpened; sharp-pointed. 
Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc. 
Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind; the faculty of nice discrimination. Selden. 
Attended with symptoms of some degree of severity, and coming speedily to a crisis; -- opposed to chronic; as, an acute disease. Acute angle (Geom.), an angle less than a right angle. 
To give an acute sound to; as, he acutes his rising inflection too much. [R.] Walker. 
An acid radical, as acetyl, malonyl, or benzoyl. 
To compel; to drive. [Obs.] Fotherby. 
An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a proverb. Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would," Like the poor cat i' the adage. Shak. 
Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio, adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow. 
A piece of music in adagio time; a slow movement; as, an adagio of Haydn. 
"Original sin;" human frailty. And whipped the offending Adam out of him. Shak. Adam's ale, water. [Coll.] -- Adam's apple. 
Dancing. Lowell. 
Fitted; suited. [Obs.] Swift. 
To make suitable; to fit, or suit; to adjust; to alter so as to fit for a new use; -- sometimes followed by to or for. For nature, always in the right, To your decays adapts my sight. Swift. Appeals adapted to his [man's] whole nature. Angus. Streets ill adapted for the residence of wealthy persons. Macaulay. 
The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and the sixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March. 
A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds in Galatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansing the skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy. Dana. 
A fine cotton cloth of India. 
To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate. [Obs.] Skelton. 
To subdue; to daunt. [Obs.] The sight whereof did greatly him adaw. Spenser. 
To awaken; to arouse. [Obs.] A man that waketh of his sleep He may not suddenly well taken keep Upon a thing, ne seen it parfitly Till that he be adawed verily. Chaucer. 
By day, or every day; in the daytime. [Obs.] Fielding. 
Addible. 
One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, or Oryx, nasomaculatus). 
To award; to adjudge. [Obs.] "Unto him they did addeem the prise." Spenser. 
One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for adding numbers. 
A dragon fly. 
See Adze. [Obs.] Moxon. 
Addicted; devoted. [Obs.] 
The quality or state of being addicted; attachment. 
Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, as eggs; putrid. Hence: Unfruitful or confused, as brains; muddled. Dryden. 
To make addle; to grow addle; to muddle; as, he addled his brain. "Their eggs were addled." Cowper. 
A foolish or dull-witted fellow. [Colloq.] 
To adjudge. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, or consideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege. Reasons . . . were adduced on both sides. Macaulay. Enough could not be adduced to satisfy the purpose of illustration. De Quincey. 
To draw towards a common center or a middle line. Huxley. 
To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by some other gift. 
Takes away. [Obs.] Without any sinister suspicion of anything being added or adempt. Latimn. 
Animal fat; lard. 
One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as, adepts in philosophy. 
Well skilled; completely versed; thoroughly proficient. Beaus adept in everything profound. Cowper. 
The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usually entire. 
Congenitally united with an organ of another kind, as calyx with ovary, or stamens with petals. 
To exhort; to advise. [Obs.] Feltham. 
Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting. 
A farewell; commendation to the care of God at parting. Shak. 
To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress. [Obs.] 
Adieu; farewell; good-by; -- chiefly used among Spanish- speaking people. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; -- applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitric acid. 
Absence of thirst. 
Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on; as, a field adjacent to the highway. "The adjacent forest." B. Jonson. Adjacent or contiguous angle. (Geom.) See Angle. 
To add or annex; to join. Leland. 
To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contact with; to attach; to append. Corrections . . . should be, as remarks, adjoined by way of note. Watts. 
Contiguous. [Obs.] Carew. 
To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, or under the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn or impressive manner; to entreat earnestly. Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before the Lord, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho. Josh. vi. 26. The high priest . . . said . . . I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ. Matt. xxvi. 63. The commissioners adjured them not to let pass so favorable an opportunity of securing their liberties. Marshall. 
Capable of being adjusted. 
To add. [Obs.] 
To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; -- sometimes with at. To wonder at Pharaoh, and even admire at myself. Fuller. 
Admissible. Sir T. Browne. 
To mingle with something else; to mix. [R.] 
To move or conduct to or toward. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
Grown to congenitally. 
An adjective, or attribute. [R.] Coleridge. 
An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective, as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico. 
A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testament by the word "Lord". 
Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty. -- n. 
A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in the chase by a wild boar. 
Capable of being adopted. 
To adorn. [Obs.] Congealed little drops which do the morn adore. Spenser. 
One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly; an ardent admirer. "An adorer of truth." Clarendon. I profess myself her adorer, not her friend. Shak. 
To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to advantage; to render pleasing or attractive. As a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. Isa. lxi. 10. At church, with meek and unaffected grace, His looks adorned the venerable place. Goldsmith. 
Adornment. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Adorned; decorated. [Obs.] Milton. 
From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or on the ground. [Archaic] "Thrice did she sink adown." Spenser. 
Down. [Archaic & Poetic] Her hair adown her shoulders loosely lay displayed. Prior. 
Put in dread; afraid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To dread. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 
Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows. 
Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy of wind and waves. Also fig. So on the sea shall be set adrift. Dryden. Were from their daily labor turned adrift. Wordsworth. 
In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip. D. G. Mitchell. 
Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied to persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply. "Adroit in the application of the telescope and quadrant." Horsley. "He was adroit in intrigue." Macaulay. 
In a dry or thirsty condition. "A man that is adry." Burton. 
Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength; matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age. 
A person, animal, or plant grown to full size and strength; one who has reached maturity. 
To burn up. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Either of two compounds, a chlorine derivative and bromine derivative, of hydroquinone, used as developers. 
Having much heat in the constitution and little serum in the blood. [Obs.] Hence: Atrabilious; sallow; gloomy. 
To accede, or come (to); to be added to something or become a part of it, though not essential. [R.] Where no act of the will advenes as a coefficient. Coleridge. 
The period including the four Sundays before Christmas. Advent Sunday (Eccl.), the first Sunday in the season of Advent, being always the nearest Sunday to the feast of St. Andrew (Now. 30). Shipley. 
A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle, adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writes well; paper extremely white. 
To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed or notice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said. I may again advert to the distinction. Owen. 
Counseling to perform a specific illegal act. Wharton. Advice boat, a vessel employed to carry dispatches or to reconnoiter; a dispatch boat. -- To take advice. (a) To accept advice. (b) To consult with another or others. 
Deliberate consideration; prudent procedure; caution. 
Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
To summon; to call. [Obs.] Queen Katharine had privately prevailed with the pope to advoke the cause to Rome. Fuller. 
Award. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whence oracles were given. Hence: A private chamber; a sanctum. 
To cut with an adz. [R.] Carlyle. 
A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence of public buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer. 
Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea, east of Greece. See Archipelago. 
A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to the shield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.: A shield; a protection. 
The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is Æneas. 
Æolian, 1; as, the Æolic dialect; the Æolic mode. 
The god of the winds. 
A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of the Deity. See Eon. 
To expose to the chemical action of air; to oxygenate (the blood) by respiration; to arterialize. Aërated bread, bread raised by charging dough with carbonic acid gas, instead of generating the gas in the dough by fermentation. 
The state of being aërial; [R.] De Quincey. 
The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also a brood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.: A human residence or resting place perched like an eagle's nest. 
The combining form of the Greek word meaning air. 
Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy. [R.] 
The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris. 
An aerie. 
Aërial; ethereal; incorporeal; visionary. [Poetic] M. Arnold. 
In the old Norse mythology, the gods Odin, Thor, Loki, Balder, Frigg, and the others. Their home was called Asgard. 
See Ether. 
At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used with from preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I saw him afar off. The steep where Fame's proud temple shines afar. Beattie. 
Afraid. [Obs.] Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises. Shak. 
The southwest wind. Milton. 
An action or engagement not of sufficient magnitude to be called a battle. 
To frighten. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Affection; inclination; passion; feeling; disposition. [Obs.] Shak. 
To assess or reduce, as an arbitrary penalty or amercement, to a certain and reasonable sum. Amercements . . . were affeered by the judges. Blackstone. 
To polish. [Obs.] 
To refine. [Obs.] Holland. 
to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, brought before an appelate court for review. 
To make a solemn declaration, before an authorized magistrate or tribunal, under the penalties of perjury; to testify by affirmation. 
That which is affixed; an appendage; esp. one or more letters or syllables added at the end of a word; a suffix; a postfix. 
A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of blood to the head. 
That may be afforded. 
To strike, or strike down. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The fighting of two or more persons, in a public place, to the terror of others. Blackstone. 
A furious onset or attack. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To pour out or upon. [R.] I first affused water upon the compressed beans. Boyle. 
To trust or confide. [Obs.] Shak. 
Of or pertaining to Afghanistan. 
On fire. 
Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze. G. Eliot. 
Level with the ground; flat. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Flowing. Their founts aflow with tears. R. Browning. 
In a flushed or blushing state. 
On a level. The bank is . . . aflush with the sea. Swinburne. 
In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam. 
In the fore part of a vessel. 
Before; in front of; farther forward than; as, afore the windlass. Afore the mast, among the common sailors; -- a phrase used to distinguish the ship's crew from the officers. 
In collision; entangled. Totten. To run afoul of, to run against or come into collision with, especially so as to become entangled or to cause injury. 
Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive. [Afraid comes after the noun it limits.] "Back they recoiled, afraid." Milton. 
Same as Afrit. 
Anew; again; once more; newly. They crucify . . . the Son of God afresh. Heb. vi. 6. 
African. -- n. 
In front; face to face. -- prep. In front of. Shak. 
Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft. 
To ward the stern of the ship; -- applied to any object in the rear part of a vessel; as the after cabin, after hatchway. 
Subsequently in time or place; behind; afterward; as, he follows after. It was about the space of three hours after. Acts. v. 7. 
Against; also, towards (in order to meet). [Obs.] Albeit that it is again his kind. Chaucer. 
A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetable substances; also, one of these lizards. 
A South American bird (Psophia crepitans), allied to the cranes, and easily domesticated; -- called also the gold-breasted trumpeter. Its body is about the size of the pheasant. See Trumpeter. 
In an agamic manner. 
Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention. Dazzles the crowd and sets them all agape. Milton. 
The love feast of the primitive Christians, being a meal partaken of in connection with the communion. 
A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which the common mushroom is an example. 
In a state of gasping. Coleridge. 
See Aghast. 
On the way; agoing; as, to be agate; to set the bells agate. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 
A semipellucid, uncrystallized variety of quartz, presenting various tints in the same specimen. Its colors are delicately arranged in stripes or bands, or blended in clouds. 
Of the nature of agate, or containing agate. 
A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceæ) of which the chief species is the maguey or century plant (A. Americana), wrongly called Aloe. It is from ten to seventy years, according to climate, in attaining maturity, when it produces a gigantic flower stem, sometimes forty feet in height, and perishes. The fermented juice is the pulque of the Mexicans; distilled, it yields mescal. A strong thread and a tough paper are made from the leaves, and the wood has many uses. 
Gazing with astonishment; amazed. [Obs.] The whole army stood agazed on him. Shak. 
To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age; as, he grew fat as he aged. They live one hundred and thirty years, and never age for all that. Holland. I am aging; that is, I have a whitish, or rather a light-colored, hair here and there. Landor. 
To cause to grow old; to impart the characteristics of age to; as, grief ages us. 
In the manner of an aged person. 
See Again. [Obs.] 
See Agendum. [Obs.] 
Actingpatient, or sustaining, action. [Archaic] "The body agent." Bacon. 
Of or pertaining to an agent or an agency. Fitzed. Hall. 
An earthwork; a mound; a raised work. [Obs.] Hearne. 
To heap up. [Obs.] The violence of the waters aggested the earth. Fuller. 
See Agast, v. t. [Obs.] 
Terrified; struck with amazement; showing signs of terror or horror. Aghast he waked; and, starting from his bed, Cold sweat in clammy drops his limbs o'erspread. Dryden. The commissioners read and stood aghast. Macaulay. 
Possible to be done; practicable. [Obs.] "Fit for agible things." Sir A. Sherley. 
Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or ready to move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue. Shaking it with agile hand. Cowper. 
The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it is given in exchange for an inferior sort. The premium or discount on foreign bills of exchange is sometimes called agio. 
To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- used originally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, and collecting the money for the same. Blackstone. 
Gleaming; as, faces agleam. Lowell. 
Aside; askew. [Scotch] Burns. 
In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow. 
A relative whose relationship can be traced exclusively through males. 
To recognize; to acknowledge. [Archaic] I do agnize a natural and prompt alacrity. Shak. 
Agnus Dei. 
Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago. 
In eager desire; eager; astir. All agog to dash through thick and thin. Cowper. 
In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing. 
A contest for a prize at the public games. 
Ago. [Archaic. & Poet.] Three days agone I fell sick. 1 Sam. xxx. 13. 
Agonic line. 
Not forming an angle. Agonic line (Physics), an imaginary line on the earth's surface passing through those places where the magnetic needle points to the true north; the line of no magnetic variation. There is one such line in the Western hemisphere, and another in the Eastern hemisphere. 
In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood." Shak. 
In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood."  Shak. 
An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially the market place, in an ancient Greek city. 
A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus), allied to the moles, found only in Hayti. 
See Aggrace. [Obs.] 
To correspond in gender, number, case, or person. 
In an agreeing manner (to); correspondingly; agreeably. [Obs.] 
One who agrees. 
In grief; amiss. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In the act of grinning. "His visage all agrin." Tennyson. 
To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the East Indies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves. 
In the act of groping. Mrs. Browning. 
An intermittent fever, attended by alternate cold and hot fits. 
To strike with an ague, or with a cold fit. Heywood. 
To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Dress. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
To dress; to attire; to adorn. [Obs.] Above all knights ye goodly seem aguised. Spenser. 
In a gushing state. Hawthorne. 
An exclamation expressing, by different intonations, triumph, mixed with derision or irony, or simple surprise. 
A sunk fence. See Ha-ha. Mason. 
In a heap; huddled together. Hood. 
An exclamation to call one's attention; hem. 
Hey; ho. 
On high. [Obs.] Shak. 
Near the wind; as, to lay a ship ahold. [Obs.] Shak. 
A term used in hailing; as, "Ship ahoy." 
The Asiatic gazelle. 
With the sails furled, and the helm lashed alee; -- applied to ships in a storm. See Hull, n. 
To support, either by furnishing strength or means in coöperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; to help; to assist. You speedy helpers . . . Appear and aid me in this enterprise. Shak. 
A subsidy granted to the king by Parliament; also, an exchequer loan. 
Helping; helpful; supplying aid. Shak. 
One who, or that which, aids. 
Helpful. [Archaic.] Bp. Hall. 
See Ayle. [Obs.] 
Same as Aglet. 
Sour. [Obs.] Shak. 
To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental; to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasiness or affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man I know not what ails him. What aileth thee, Hagar Gen. xxi. 17. 
To be affected with pain or uneasiness of any sort; to be ill or indisposed or in trouble. When he ails ever so little . . . he is so peevish. Richardson. 
Indisposition or morbid affection. Pope. 
To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; to direct, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against an object; as, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist or a blow (at something); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice). 
One who aims, directs, or points. 
One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islands etc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposed to have been the progenitors of the Japanese. The Ainos are stout and short, with hairy bodies. 
An artificial or affected manner; show of pride or vanity; haughtiness; as, it is said of a person, he puts on airs. Thackeray. 
A sack or matters inflated with air, and used as a bed. 
An air-filled gap in a magnetic or electric circuit; specif., in a dynamo or motor, the space between the field-magnet poles and the armature; clearance. 
In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; fippantly. 
A jacket having air-tight cells, or cavities which can be filled with air, to render persons buoyant in swimming. 
A man who ascends or flies in an aircraft; a flying machine pilot. 
A grayish green antiseptic powder, consisting of a basic iodide and gallate of bismuth, sometimes used in place of iodoform. [A Trademark] 
Having the light and aërial tints true to nature. Elmes. 
Furnished with an aisle or aisles. 
An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot. The ait where the osiers grew. R. Hodges (1649). Among green aits and meadows. Dickens. 
Oat. [Scot.] Burns. 
The letter h or H. 
Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar. 
In a state of discord; out of harmony; as, he is ajar with the world. 
See Ajouan. 
On the jog. 
See Ache. 
Same as Achene. 
See Acton. 
With a crook or bend; with the hand on the hip and elbow turned outward. "With one arm akimbo." Irving. 
Paralysis of the motor nerves; loss of movement. Foster. 
On the knee. [R.] Southey. 
Earlier form of Acknow. [Obs.] To be aknow, to acknowledge; to confess. [Obs.] 
A winglike organ, or part. 
An exclamation expressive of sorrow. [Archaic. or Poet.] Shak. 
Inability to utter articulate sounds, due either to paralysis of the larynx or to that form of aphasia, called motor, or ataxis, aphasia, due to loss of control of the muscles of speech. 
A wolfhound. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
On land; to the land; ashore. "Cast aland." Sir P. Sidney. 
Axillary; in the fork or axil. Gray. 
Easily alarmed or disturbed. 
See Alarm. [Now Poetic] 
Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped. The alary system of insects. Wollaston. 
An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension of evil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas the day, like alack a day, or alas the white. 
Lately; of late. [Archaic] There hath been alate such tales spread abroad. Latimer. 
See Alan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an enveloping the person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holy orders when officiating at mass. It was formerly worn, at least by clerics, in daily life. 
A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta- percha by the action of alcohol or ether. 
A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks, teapots, etc. British plate or German silver. See German silver, under German. 
Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.) The ratio which the light reflected from an unpolished surface bears to the total light falling upon that surface. 
Even though; although; notwithstanding. Chaucer. Albeit so masked, Madam, I love the truth. Tennyson. 
A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by some defect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin, hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has a skin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deep red pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the lower animals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitish condition from the absence of chlorophyll. Amer. Cyc. 
An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry. In that nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak. 
A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization, and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a common constituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar. 
Same as Leucoma. 
A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list of names, etc. 
The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarly silvery color which are used in making artificial pearls. 
Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland. T. Cambell. 
Same as Alcaid. 
Pertaining to Alcæus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b. c. -- n. A kind of verse, so called from Alcæus. One variety consists of five feet, a spondee or iambic, an iambic, a long syllable, and two dactyls. 
A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher (Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon. 
A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines. 
A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess in a library. 
See Halcyon. 
Continually. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to the genus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers and tanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs or small trees. Black alder. (a) A European shrub (Rhamnus frangula); Alder buckthorn. (b) An American species of holly (Ilex verticillata), bearing red berries. 
Made of alder. 
An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) which proceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, of Venice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the sign of the anchor and the dolphin. The term has also been applied to certain elegant editions of English works. 
A colorless liquid, C4H8O2, obtained by condensation of two molecules of acetaldehyde: CH3CHO + CH3CHO = H3CH(OH)CH2CO; also, any of various derivatives of this. The same reaction has been applied, under the name of aldol condensation, to the production of many compounds. 
In a leaking condition. 
On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the opposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed close to the lee side. Hard alee, or Luff alee, an order to put the helm to the lee side. 
Sour ale; vinegar made of ale. Cecil. 
Gay; cheerful; sprightly. [Obs.] Bacon. 
To allay or alleviate; to lighten. [Obs.] That shall alegge this bitter blast. Spenser. 
The imperial standard of the Turkish Empire. 
An alarm from a real or threatened attack; a sudden attack; also, a bugle sound to give warning. "We have had an alert." Farrow. On the alert, on the lookout or watch against attack or danger; ready to act. 
Young fish; fry. 
Halloo. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Alexipharmic. [Obs.] 
A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plunged his forearm as a test of innocence or guilt. 
A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plants which includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse, sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervæ, etc. 
Pertaining to, or like, algæ. 
Cold; chilly. Bailey. Algid cholera (Med.), Asiatic cholera. 
A nitrogenous substance resembling gelatin, obtained from certain algæ. 
Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga. 
A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus, remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness. 
Cold; chilliness. 
Of or pertaining to the algæ, or seaweeds; abounding with, or like, seaweed. 
Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable). 2 Chron. ii. 8. 
The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for a crime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place when the alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove an alibi. 
Nutritive; nourishing. 
To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property or ownership. [R.] "It the son alien lands." Sir M. Hale. The prince was totally aliened from all thoughts of . . . the marriage. Clarendon. 
To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to aliene an estate. 
On my life; dearly. [Obs.] "I love that sport alife." Beau. & Fl. 
Lighted; lighted up; in a flame. "The lamps were alight." Dickens. 
To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring into line; to aline. 
To form in line; to fall into line. 
Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference. [Now used only predicatively.] The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. Ps. cxxxix. 12. 
In the same manner, form, or degree; in common; equally; as, we are all alike concerne. 
To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align. Evelyn. 
One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them into line. Evelyn. 
A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl in the Dipper. 
Wing-footed, as the bat. -- n. 
Like ale; as, an alish taste. 
The madder of the Levant. Brande & C. 
One of a class of caustic bases, such as soda, potash, ammoma, and lithia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are solubility in alcohol and water, uniting with oils and fats to form soap, neutralizing and forming salts with acids, turning to brown several vegetable yellows, and changing reddened litmus to blue. Fixed alkalies, potash and soda. -- Vegetable alkalies. Same as Alkaloids. -- Volatile alkali, ammonia, so called in distinction from the fixed alkalies. 
The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing; everything included or concerned; the aggregate; the whole; totality; everything or every person; as, our all is at stake. Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all. Shak. All that thou seest is mine. Gen. xxxi. 43. 
Although; albeit. [Obs.] All they were wondrous loth. Spenser. 
The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and the Mohammedans generally. 
To diminish in strength; to abate; to subside. "When the rage allays." Shak. 
Alleviation; abatement; check. [Obs.] 
Alloy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To mix (metals); to mix with a baser metal; to alloy; to deteriorate. [Archaic] Fuller. 
To allure; to entice. [Obs.] 
To alleviate; to lighten, as a burden or a trouble. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
Same as Alder, of all. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any passage having the entrance represented as wider than the exit, so as to give the appearance of length. 
A choice taw or marble. Dickens. 
United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally. 
A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive, etc. 
See Allodium. 
To incite dogs by a call; to halloo. [Obs.] 
The worship of strange gods. Jer. Taylor. 
To admit; to concede; to make allowance or abatement. Allowing still for the different ways of making it. Addison. To allow of, to permit; to admit. Shak. 
To form a metallic compound. Gold and iron alloy with ease. Ure. 
To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to have reference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; -- followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction. These speeches . . . do seem to allude unto such ministerial garments as were then in use. Hooker. 
To compare allusively; to refer (something) as applicable. [Obs.] Wither. 
To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by the offer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by something flattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract. With promised joys allured them on. Falconer. The golden sun in splendor likest Heaven Allured his eye. Milton. 
Allurement. [R.] Hayward. 
Gait; bearing. The swing, the gait, the pose, the allure of these men. Harper's Mag. 
See Alley, a marble or taw. 
An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlic and mustard. 
See Ambry. [Obs.] 
An almoner. [Obs.] Spenser. 
One of the tonsils. Almond oil, fixed oil expressed from sweet or bitter almonds. -- Oil of bitter almonds, a poisonous volatile oil obtained from bitter almonds by maceration and distillation; benzoic aldehyde. -- Imitation oil of bitter almonds, nitrobenzene. -- Almond tree (Bot.), the tree bearing the almond. -- Almond willow (Bot.), a willow which has leaves that are of a light green on both sides; almond-leaved willow (Salix amygdalina). Shenstone. 
Alms. [Obs.] Cheke. 
Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part. Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Acts xxvi. 28. Almost never, scarcely ever. -- Almost nothing, scarcely anything. 
See Almonry. [Obs.] 
Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money, food, or clothing; a gift of charity. A devout man . . . which gave much alms to the people. Acts x. 2. Alms are but the vehicles of prayer. Dryden. Tenure by free alms. See Frankalmoign. Blackstone. 
Same as Amice, a hood or cape. 
A measure for liquids in several countries. In Portugal the Lisbon almude is about 4.4, and the Oporto almude about 6.6, gallons U. S. measure. In Turkey the "almud" is about 1.4 gallons. 
Measurement (of cloth) by the ell; also, a duty for such measurement. 
The wood of the agalloch. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
In the top; at the mast head, or on the higher yards or rigging; overhead; hence (Fig. and Colloq.), in or to heaven. 
Above; on top of. [Obs.] Fresh waters run aloft the sea. Holland. 
Unreasonableness; absurdity. [Obs.] 
A bitter purgative principle in aloes. 
Solely; simply; exclusively. 
By the length of, as distinguished from across. "Along the lowly lands." Dryden. The kine . . . went along the highway. 1 Sam. vi. 12. 
(Now heard only in the prep. phrase along of.) Along of, Along on, often shortened to Long of, prep. phr., owing to; on account of. [Obs. or Low. Eng.] "On me is not along thin evil fare." Chaucer. "And all this is long of you." Shak. "This increase of price is all along of the foreigners." London Punch. 
Same as Alewife. 
Away from; clear from. [Obs.] Rivetus . . . would fain work himself aloof these rocks and quicksands. Milton. 
To praise. [Obs.] 
The European shad (Clupea alosa); -- called also allice shad or allis shad. The name is sometimes applied to the American shad (Clupea sapidissima). See Shad. 
With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly. Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice. Isa. lviii. 1. 
Below; in a lower part. "Aloft, and then alow." Dryden. 
A bullfinch. Rom. of R. 
An animal of Peru (Lama paco), having long, fine, wooly hair, supposed by some to be a domesticated variety of the llama. 
Of or pertaining to the Alps. [R.] "The Alpen snow." J. Fletcher. 
The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, and hence used to denote the beginning. In am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Rev. xxii. 13. 
A crystalline derivative of salicylic acid, used as an antiseptic and antirheumatic. 
A climber of the Alps. 
Pertaining to Alsatia. 
A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifolium hybridum. 
The higher part of the scale. See Alto. To be in alt, to be in an exalted state of mind. 
The painting or piece of sculpture above and behind the altar; reredos. 
To become, in some respects, different; to vary; to change; as, the weather alters almost daily; rocks or minerals alter by exposure. "The law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not." Dan. vi. 8. 
Acting by turns; alternate. Milton. Altern base (Trig.), a second side made base, in distinction from a side previously regarded as base. 
Although. [Reformed spelling] Alt"horn`, n. Etym: [Alt + horn.] (Mus.) 
Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor, voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices, between in tenor and soprano. In instrumental music it now signifies the tenor. 
One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed as to be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another in succession; -- used in the process of sublimation. Ure. 
A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard. 
Pertaining to the alula. 
A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element (esp. an alkali metal) or of aluminium. It has twenty-four molecules of water of crystallization. 
To steep in, or otherwise impregnate with, a solution of alum; to treat with alum. Ure. 
Alum. 
A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college. 
A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds. The sides of every street were covered with fresh alures of marble. T. Warton. 
The channel of a river. Weate. 
Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines; as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions. 
Always. [Archaic or Poetic] I would not live alway. Job vii. 16. 
A genus of cruciferous plants; madwort. The sweet alyssum (A. maritimum), cultivated for bouquets, bears small, white, sweet- scented flowers. 
A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletus and Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk. It has been employed as a styptic by surgeons, but its common use is as tinder, for which purpose it is prepared by soaking it in a strong solution of niter. Ure. 
To lower, as a sail, a yard, etc. 
To lower the topsail, in token of surrender; to yield. 
To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of; to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass words or phrases. The life Homer has been written by amassing all the traditions and hints the writers could meet with. Pope. 
A mass; a heap. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 
To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt. [Obs. or Archaic] The Silures, to amate the new general, rumored the overthrow greater than was true. Milton. 
To be a mate to; to match. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To be astounded. [Archaic] B. Taylor. 
Bewilderment, arising from fear, surprise, or wonder; amazement. [Chiefly poetic] The wild, bewildered Of one to stone converted by amaze. Byron. 
A name numerous species of South American parrots of the genus Chrysotis Amazon ant (Zoöl.), a species of ant (Polyergus rufescens), of Europe and America. They seize by conquest the larvæ and nymphs other species and make slaves of them in their own nests. 
A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as a fossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore in many places. It takes a fine polish, and is used for pipe mouthpieces, beads, etc., and as a basis for a fine varnish. By friction, it becomes strongly electric. 
A fish of the southern Atlantic coast (Seriola Carolinensis.) 
An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at the same time. 
Circuit or compass. His great parts did not live within a small ambit. Milward. 
A horse or a person that ambles. 
A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christian churches. Gwilt. 
Same as Ambo. 
Double aces, the lowest throw of all at dice. Hence: Bad luck; anything of no account or value. 
To lie in wait, for the purpose of attacking by surprise; to lurk. Nor saw the snake that ambushed for his prey. Trumbull. 
Enamel. [Obs.] Boyle. 
To enamel. [Obs.] Enlightened all with stars, And richly ameled. Chapman. 
An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So be it. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief. When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily. It is used as a noun, to demote: (a) concurrence in belief, or in a statement; assent; (b) the final word or act; (c) Christ as being one who is true and faithful. And let all the people say, Amen. Ps. cvi. 48. Amen, amen, I say to thee, except a man be born again, he can not see the kingdom of God. John ii. 3. Rhemish Trans. To say amen to, to approve warmly; to concur in heartily or emphatically; to ratify; as, I say Amen to all. 
To say Amen to; to sanction fully. 
To change or modify in any way for the better; as, (a) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous, faulty, and the like; (b) by supplying deficiencies; (c) by substituting something else in the place of what is removed; to rectify. Mar not the thing that can not be amended. Shak. An instant emergency, granting no possibility for revision, or opening for amended thought. De Quincey. We shall cheer her sorrows, and amend her blood, by wedding her to a Norman. Sir W. Scott. To amend a bill, to make some change in the details or provisions of a bill or measure while on its passage, professedly for its improvement. 
To grow better by rectifying something wrong in manners or morals; to improve. "My fortune . . . amends." Sir P. Sidney. 
A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation. Amende honorable(#). (Old French Law) A species of infamous punishment in which the offender, being led into court with a rope about his neck, and a lighted torch in his hand, begged pardon of his God, the court, etc. In popular language, the phrase now denotes a public apology or recantation, and reparation to an injured party, for improper language or treatment. 
Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation. [Now const. with sing. verb.] "An honorable amends." Addison. Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends. Shak. 
A species of inflorescence; a catkin. The globular ament of a buttonwood. Coues. 
Liable to be amerced. 
Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice. 
A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined to North America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie, and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin. 
Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix; as, amic acid; phosphamic acid. Amic acid (Chem.), one of a class of nitrogenized acids somewhat resembling amides. 
A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but now about the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Church while saying Mass. 
A hood, or cape with a hood, made of lined with gray fur, formerly worn by the clergy; -- written also amess, amyss, and almuce. 
See Amidst. 
A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid element or radical. It may also be regarded as ammonia in which one or more hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an acid atom or radical. Acid amide, a neutral compound formed by the substitution of the amido group for hydroxyl in an acid. 
Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, like horn. It is soluble in cold water. 
Containing, or derived from, amidogen. Amido acid, an acid in which a portion of the nonacid hydrogen has been replaced by the amido group. The amido acids are both basic and acid. -- Amido group, amidogen, NH2. 
A salt of a diamino phenol, C6H3(OH)(NH2)2, used as a developer. 
A friend; -- a Spanish term applied in the Philippine Islands to friendly natives. 
One of a class of strongly basic substances derived from ammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atom or radical. 
A colorless liquid prepared from herring brine and containing amines, used as a local antiseptic. 
Like or pertaining to the Amioidei. -- n. 
Same as Ameer. 
The Amish Mennonites. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, the followers of Jacob Amman, a strict Mennonite of the 17th century, who even proscribed the use of buttons and shaving as "worldly conformity". There are several branches of Amish Mennonites in the United States. 
Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill. What error drives our eyes and ears amiss Shak. Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss. James iv. 3. To take (an act, thing) amiss, to impute a wrong motive to (an act or thing); to take offense at' to take unkindly; as, you must not take these questions amiss. 
Wrong; faulty; out of order; improper; as, it may not be amiss to ask advice. 
A fault, wrong, or mistake. [Obs.] Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss. Shak. 
To lose. [Obs.] A lodestone fired doth presently amit its proper virtue. Sir T. Browne. 
Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies, or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty of amity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories. To live on terms of amity with vice. Cowper. 
An abbes or spiritual mother. 
Oölite or roestone; -- written also hammite. [Obs.] 
A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles. 
Same as Amnion. 
A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing many changes of form at will. See Rhizopoda. 
Any detergent plant, or the part of it used as a detergent, as the roots of Agave Americana, Chlorogalum pomeridianum, etc. [Sp. Amer. & Mex.] 
A genus of aromatic plants. It includes species which bear cardamoms, and grains of paradise. 
An amoret. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed. Shak. 
Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip does not touch the ground. 
To signify; to amount to. [Obs.] 
Self-love; self-esteem. 
To dismiss from an office or station. 
To move or be moved; to excite. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and a base, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, or tellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound. [R.] Berzelius. 
Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious; roomy; widely extended. All the people in that ample house Did to that image bow their humble knees. Spenser. 
In an ample manner. 
Same as Ampulla, 2. 
A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the front hair. 
Immorality; also, the nectar conferring immortality. -- a. Ambrosial; immortal. 
An administrative territorial division in Denmark and Norway. 
In a frenzied and reckless. To run amuck, to rush out in a state of frenzy, as the Malays sometimes do under the influence of "bhang," and attack every one that comes in the way; to assail recklessly and indiscriminately. Satire's my weapon, but I'm too discreet To run amuck, and tilt at all I meet. Pope. 
An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic, etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms or characters. 
To muse; to mediate. [Obs.] 
One who amuses. 
An explosive consisting of ammonium nitrate, a derivative of nitrobenzene, chlorated napthalene, and wood meal. 
A friend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found in amyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether. Amylic alcohol (Chem.), one of the series of alcohols, a transparent, colorless liquid, having a peculiar odor. It is the hydroxide of amyl. -- Amylic fermentation (Chem.), a process of fermentation in starch or sugar in which amylic alcohol is produced. Gregory. 
Wanting in muscle; without flesh. 
Same as Amice, a hood or cape. 
Of each; an equal quantity; as, wine and honey, ana (or, contracted, aa), ., that is, of wine and honey, each, two ounces. An apothecary with a . . . long bill of anas. Dryden. 
A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote a collection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus, Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsoniana of Johnson, etc. 
A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living long out of water, and of making their way on land for considerable distances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes. 
A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath. Drayton. Tennyson. 
Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin or glands. 
An expression equivalent to What did you say Sir Eh [Obs.] Shak. 
The pineapple (Ananassa sativa). 
The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt. Milton. Imperial anarchs doubling human woes. Byron. 
A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certain species of fresh-water ducks. 
Same as Annotto. 
A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as, assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy. 
An emblem of hope. 
An anchoret. [Obs.] Shak. 
The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen from heaven in the reign of Numa. It was the palladium of Rome. 
See Ankle. 
A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow. [Obs.] Boucher. 
The olecranon, or the elbow. Ancon sheep (Zoöl.), a breed of sheep with short crooked legs and long back. It originated in Massachusetts in 1791; -- called also the otter breed. 
A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar in the middle, but unwrought at the ends. 
Doubt; uncertainty. [Obs.] Shelford. 
Pertaining to the Andes. 
Andean; as, Andine flora. 
The apartment appropriated for the males. This was in the lower part of the house. 
Near. [R.] "It did not come anear." Coleridge. The measure of misery anear us. I. Taylor. 
To near; to approach. [Archaic] 
Beneath. [Scot.] 
Not becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to idioelectric. -- n. 
Once. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
The herb dill, or dillseed. 
Soothing. 
Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to arm anew; to create anew. Dryden. 
An ancient gold coin of England, bearing the figure of the archangel Michael. It varied in value from 6s. 8d. to 10s. Amer. Cyc. 
Angrily. [Obs. or Poetic] Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly. Shak. 
Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as the quinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tends to produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath. Angina pectoris, a peculiarly painful disease, so named from a sense of suffocating contraction or tightening of the lower part of the chest; -- called also breast pang, spasm of the chest. 
A name given to four of the twelve astrological "houses." [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To try to gain by some insinuating artifice; to allure. [Obs.] "He angled the people's hearts." Sir P. Sidney. 
Having an angle or angles; -- used in compounds; as, right- angled, many-angled, etc. The thrice three-angled beechnut shell. Bp. Hall. 
A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having a large, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiar appendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes within reach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish, allmouth, monkfish, etc. 
An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, which came to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England). The Angles probably came from the district of Angeln (now within the limits of Schleswig), and the country now Lower Hanover, etc. 
Anglian. 
A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat. 
Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upper part of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression. 
A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia) which has given its name to a goat, a cat, etc. Angora cat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic cat with very long and silky hair, generally of the brownish white color. Called also Angola cat. See Cat. -- Angora goat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic goat, reared for its long silky hair, which is highly prized for manufacture. 
Snake-shaped. 
Narrow; strait. [Obs.] 
To hang. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for). [Obs.] They anhele . . . for the fruit of our convocation. Latimer. 
A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi (Palamedea cornuta). See Kamichi. 
Nigh. [Archaic] 
A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil), one of the original sources of indigo; also, the indigo dye. 
Old-womanish; imbecile. "Anile ideas." Walpole. 
Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied to an acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo. [R.] 
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules. "Animalcular life." Tyndall. 
Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of the eyes of a rapacious animal. Brande & C. 
A resin exuding from a tropical American tree (Hymenæa courbaril), and much used by varnish makers. Ure. 
Animating spirit; intention; temper. nimus furandi Etym: [L.] (Law), intention of stealing. 
An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro- chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed to cation. Faraday. 
An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally in Egypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative and aromatic seeds. 
Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol. 
Methyl phenyl ether, C6H5OCH3, got by distilling anisic acid or by the action of methide on potassium phenolate. 
In Guam and the Philippines, an idol, fetich, or spirit. 
A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutch anker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the old wine gallons, or 8 
A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute or sacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life. Called also crux ansata. 
The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus. Ankle bone, the bone of the ankle; the astragalus. 
Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled. Beau. & Fl. 
An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring. 
An elephant goad with a sharp spike and hook, resembling a short-handled boat hook. [India] Kipling. 
A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle. [Written also anelace.] 
An initial sound, as of a word or syllable. 
An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, or about 2 
See Annals. 
The record of a single event or item. "In deathless annal." Young. 
One who, or that which, anneals. 
To join; to be united. Tooke. 
Something annexed or appended; as, an additional stipulation to a writing, a subsidiary building to a main building; a wing. 
A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what one dislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy. Worse than Tantalus' is her annoy. Shak. 
A Mass for a deceased person or for some special object, said daily for a year or on the anniversary day. 
Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula. J. Rogers. 
A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to the buffalo, but having long nearly straight horns. 
The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly the electrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way to the other pole; -- opposed to cathode. 
A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having to teeth at the hinge. [Written also Anodonta.] 
The anoint with oil. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidæ. They take the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and in America are often called chameleons. 
Anything anomalous. [R.] 
A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called from their unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated for attachment. 
Disregard or violation of law. [R.] Glanvill. 
A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural order Anonaceæ, including the soursop. 
The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also, that which anonymous. [R.] He rigorously insisted upon the rights of anonymity. Carlyle. 
One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina. 
To adorn. [Obs.] Bp. Watson. 
See Annotto. 
See Anura. 
A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring. 
A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; a confutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsive declaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is the usual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill. Bouvier. 
A hymenopterous insect of the Linnæan genus Formica, which is now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire. 
A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and base. 
Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante) the game begins. 
To put up (an ante). 
Being before, or in front. [R.] J. Fleming. 
To celebrate with anthems. [Poet.] Sweet birds antheming the morn. Keats. 
That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizing dust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of the ovary. -- An"ther*al, a. 
A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, or in place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It is often shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic. 
The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of some birds; the frontal points. 
A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of one species of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria). 
"Lords of antic fame." Phaer. 
A grotesque representation. [Obs.] 
To make appear like a buffoon. [Obs.] Shak. 
To perform antics. 
The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervine animal, as of a stag. Huge stags with sixteen antlers. Macaulay. 
The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. See Lepidoptera. 
Relating to an antrum. 
A cavern. [Obs.] Shak. 
A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus. Huxley. 
An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits, represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox. 
One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence of a tail, as the frogs and toads. [Written also anoura.] 
Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury. 
The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through which the excrements are expelled. 
the incus. See Incus. To be on the anvil, to be in a state of discussion, formation, or preparation, as when a scheme or measure is forming, but not matured. Swift. 
To form or shape on an anvil; to hammer out; as, anviled armor. Beau. & Fl. 
To any extent; in any degree; at all. You are not to go loose any longer. Shak. Before you go any farther. Steele. 
In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event. Anyhow, it must be acknowledged to be not a simple selforiginated error. J. H. Newman. Anyhow, the languages of the two nations were closely allied. E. A. Freeman. 
One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody. 
Pertaining to Aonia, Boeotia, or to the Muses, who were supposed to dwell there. Aonian fount, the fountain of Aganippe, at the foot of Mount Helicon, not far from Thebes, and sacred to the Muses. 
A tense in the Greek language, which expresses an action as completed in past time, but leaves it, in other respects, wholly indeterminate. 
The great artery which carries the blood from the heart to all parts of the body except the lungs; the main trunk of the arterial system. 
Of or pertaining to the aorta. 
An African sheeplike quadruped (the Ammotragus tragelaphus) having a long mane on the breast and fore legs. It is, perhaps, the chamois of the Old Testament. 
With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily. His dewy locks did drop with brine apace. Spenser. A visible triumph of the gospel drawapace. I. Taylor. 
Paid; pleased. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To impair or become impaired; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A building comprising a number of suites designed for separate housekeeping tenements, but having conveniences, such as heat, light, elevator service, etc., furnished in common; -- often distinguished in the United States from a flat house. 
Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement; dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied to the mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference, incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertion by pleasure, pain, or passion. "The apathy of despair." Macaulay. A certain apathy or sluggishness in his nature which led him . . . to leave events to take their own course. Prescott. According to the Stoics, apathy meant the extinction of the passions by the ascendency of reason. Fleming. 
See Appaum. 
A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadæ, having teeth of the same number and form as in man, having teeth of the same number and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheek pouches. The name is applied esp. to species of the genus Hylobates, and is sometimes used as a general term for all Quadrumana. The higher forms, the gorilla, chimpanzee, and ourang, are often called anthropoid apes or man apes. 
To mimic, as an ape imitates human actions; to imitate or follow servilely or irrationally. "How he apes his sire." Addison. The people of England will not ape the fashions they have never tried. Burke. 
In a vertical line. The anchor in apeak, when the cable has been sufficiently hove in to bring the ship over it, and the ship is them said to be hove apeak. [Spelt also apeek.] 
Defective digestion, indigestion. Coxe. 
One who apes. 
A first view or glance, or the perception or estimation so obtained; an immediate apprehension or insight, appreciative rather than analytic. 
The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea). 
Open; ev [Archaic] Fotherby. 
Openly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Having no petals, or flower leaves. [See Illust. under Anther]. 
The end or edge of a vein nearest the surface. [U.S.] Apex of the earth's motion (Astron.), that point of the heavens toward which the earth is moving in its orbit. 
One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian. 
A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and family Aphidæ, including numerous species known as plant lice and green flies. 
Roundish pearl-colored specks or flakes in the mouth, on the lips, etc., terminating in white sloughs. They are commonly characteristic of thrush. 
Belonging to bees. 
A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; a beehouse. 
At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit. Gray. 
See Apex. 
Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share of each; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece. "Fined . . . a thousand pounds apiece." Hume. 
Trimmed. [Obs.] Full fresh and new here gear apiked was. Chaucer. 
An oily liquid derived from parsley. 
A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including the common honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species. See Honeybee. 
Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servile manner. Hence: Apelike; fantastically silly; foppish; affected; trifling. The apish gallantry of a fantastic boy. Sir W. Scott. 
Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession. 
A prefix from a Greek preposition. It usually signifies from, away from, off, or asunder, separate; as, in apocope (a cutting off), apostate, apostle (one sent away), apocarpous. 
Apodal. 
Same as Apodeictic. 
That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatest distance from the earth. 
Balanced. 
Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly to certain nerve cells. 
A deity among the Greeks and Romans. He was the god of light and day (the "sun god"), of archery, prophecy, medicine, poetry, and music, etc., and was represented as the model of manly grace and beauty; -- called also Phébus. The Apollo Belvedere, a celebrated statue of Apollo in the Belvedere gallery of the Vatican palace at Rome, esteemed of the noblest representations of the human frame. 
A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss what course to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc. 
On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm. 
A decoction or infusion. [Obs.] Wiseman. 
To impair; to grow worse. [Obs.] 
Terror; dismay. [Poet.] Cowper. 
To pay; to satisfy or appease. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 
To apply for the removal of a cause from an inferior to a superior judge or court for the purpose of reëxamination of for decision. Tomlins. I appeal unto Cæsar. Acts xxv. 11. 
An appellant. [Obs.] Shak. 
Appearance. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 
A tap or stamp of the foot as a warning of intent to attack; -- called also attack. 
A subordinate or subsidiary part or organ; an external organ or limb, esp. of the articulates. Antennæ and other appendages used for feeling. Carpenter. 
To seek for; to desire. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to Appius. Appian Way, the great paved highway from ancient Rome trough Capua to Brundisium, now Brindisi, constructed partly by Appius Claudius, about 312 b. c. 
Any tree genus Pyrus which has the stalk sunken into the base of the fruit; an apple tree. 
To grow like an apple; to bear apples. Holland. 
To divide into plots or parts; to apportion. Milton. 
A passing tone preceding an essential tone, and borrowing the time it occupies from that; a short auxiliary or grace note one degree above or below the principal note unless it be of the same harmony; -- generally indicated by a note of smaller size, as in the illustration above. It forms no essential part of the harmony. 
To put questions to; to examine; to try. [Obs.] See Pose. To appose him without any accuser, and that secretly. Tyndale. 
A support or supporter; a stay; a prop. [Obs.] If a be to climb trees that are of any great height, there would be stays and appuies set to it. Holland. Point d'appui. Etym: [F., a point of support.] (Mil.) (a) A given point or body, upon which troops are formed, or by which are marched in line or column. (b) An advantageous defensive support, as a castle, morass, wood, declivity, etc. 
Characterizing that kind of reasoning which deduces consequences from definitions formed, or principles assumed, or which infers effects from causes previously known; deductive or deductively. The reverse of a posteriori. 
Wearing an apron. A cobbler aproned, and a parson gowned. Pope. 
Of or pertaining to the apsides of an orbit. 
One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite, which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body, corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet, or to the apogee and perigee of the moon. The more distant is called the higher apsis; the other, the lower apsis; and the line joining them, the line of apsides. 
To fit; to suit; to adapt. [Obs.] " To apt their places." B. Jonson. That our speech be apted to edification. Jer. Taylor. 
To make fit. [Obs.] Bailey 
Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnæn order of insects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders, centipeds, and even worms. These animals are now placed in several distinct classes and orders. 
In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently; appropriately; readily. 
A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun. 
A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod. 
Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry, in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed. Aqua ammoniæ, the aqueous solution of ammonia; liquid ammonia; often called aqua ammonia. -- Aqua marine, or Aqua marina. Same as Aquamarine. -- Aqua regia. Etym: [L., royal water] (Chem.), a very corrosive fuming yellow liquid consisting of nitric and hydrochloric acids. It has the power of dissolving gold, the "royal" metal. -- Aqua Tofana, a fluid containing arsenic, and used for secret poisoning, made by an Italian woman named Tofana, in the middle of the 17th century, who is said to have poisoned more than 600 persons. Francis. -- Aqua vitæ Etym: [L., water of life. Cf. Eau de vie, Usquebaugh], a name given to brandy and some other ardent spirits. Shak. 
A genus of eagles. 
Watery; aqueous. [R.] Bailey. 
The Altar; a southern constellation, south of the tail of the Scorpion. 
A name of the great blue and yellow macaw (Ara ararauna), native of South America. 
One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria, Northern Africa, etc. Street Arab, a homeless vagabond in the streets of a city, particularly and outcast boy or girl. Tylor. The ragged outcasts and street Arabs who are shivering in damp doorways. Lond. Sat. Rev. 
A wagon or cart, usually heavy and without springs, and often covered. [Oriental] 
Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians. Arabic numerals or figures, the nine digits, 1, 2, 3, etc., and the cipher 0. -- Gum arabic. See under Gum. 
The language of the Arabians. 
A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gum arabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance. 
Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to land which has been plowed or tilled. 
Arable land; plow land. 
The country of Arabia. [Archaic & Poetic] 
To tear up by the roots; to draw away. [Obs.] Wyatt. 
To raise. [Obs.] Shak. 
Same as Arrack. 
A bead of rough carnelian. Arangoes were formerly imported from Bombay for use in the African slave trade. McCulloch. 
The palm (or great black) cockatoo, of Australia (Microglossus aterrimus). 
A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines, branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower. Sir P. Sidney. 
A tree, as distinguished from a shrub. 
A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of an ellipse. 
Furnished with an arcade. 
Hidden; secret. [Obs.] "The arcane part of divine wisdom." Berkeley. 
Any part of a curved line. 
To form into an arch; to curve. 
A chief. [Obs.] My worthy arch and patron comes to-night. Shak. 
A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler). 
Made with an arch or curve; covered with an arch; as, an arched door. 
A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow. 
pl. of Arch, n. Court of arches, or Arches Court (Eng. Law), the court of appeal of the Archbishop of Canterbury, whereof the judge, who sits as deputy to the archbishop, is called the Dean of the Arches, because he anciently held his court in the church of St. Mary-le-Bow (de arcubus). It is now held in Westminster. Mozley & W. 
Of or pertaining to the satiric Greek poet Archilochus; as, Archilochian meter. 
In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness; slyly; waggishly. Archly the maiden smiled. Longfellow. 
One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, by preëminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates. -- Ar*chon"tic, a. 
Arched; as, archy brows. 
A suffix properly meaning a rule, ruling, as in monarchy, the rule of one only. Cf. -arch. 
Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellation called the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle, region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature. 
A group of Arachnida. See Illust. in Appendix. 
Of or pertaining to an arc. Arcual measure of an angle (Math.), that in which the unit angle has its measuring arc equal to the radius of the circle. 
In an ardent manner; eagerly; with warmth; affectionately; passionately. 
Bright and effulgent spirits; seraphim. [Thus used by Milton.] 
The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be; but etymologically a different word from be, or was. Am, art, are, and is, all come from the root as. 
The unit of superficial measure, being a square of which each side is ten meters in length; 100 square meters, or about 119.6 square yards. 
The superficial contents of any figure; the surface included within any given lines; superficial extent; as, the area of a square or a triangle. 
Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areas or spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves). 
To raise; to set up; to stir up. [Obs.] 
Backward; in or to the rear; behindhand. Spenser. 
A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut, or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the Piper Betle and lime. 
In a reeking condition. Swift. 
To dry, or make dry. Bacon. 
The area in the central part of an amphitheater, in which the gladiators fought and other shows were exhibited; -- so called because it was covered with sand. 
The colored ring around the nipple, or around a vesicle or pustule. 
Same as Areola. 
See Arear. [Obs.] Ellis. 
A support for the spear when couched for the attack. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To reckon; to ascribe; to impute. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An acute and rugged crest of a mountain range or a subsidiary ridge between two mountain gorges. 
In a row. [Obs.] "All her teeth arew." Spenser. 
Crude tartar. See Argol. 
A ludicrous corruption of the Latin word ergo, therefore. Shak. 
The adjutant bird. 
A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. The famous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that of Central America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje. 
Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo. 
Whiteness; anything that is white. The polished argent of her breast. Tennyson. 
Made of silver; of a silvery color; white; shining. Yonder argent fields above. Pope. 
Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. See Clay. 
Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece. -- n. 
The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-four companions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece. 
Pertaining to the ship Argo. 
Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar is prepared. It exists in the juice of grapes, and is deposited from wines on the sides of the casks. Ure. 
A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphere and remarkable for its chemical inertness. Rayleigh and Ramsay. 
A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size. Where your argosies with portly sail . . . Do overpeer the petty traffickers. Shak. 
A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves, tramps, and vagabonds; flash. 
One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant. 
A genus of copepod Crustacea, parasitic of fishes; a fish louse. See Branchiura. 
A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes, who has placed by Juno to guard Io. His eyes were transplanted to the peacock's tail. 
In a subtle; shrewdly. 
An air or song; a melody; a tune. 
See Aryan. 
Pertaining to Arius, a presbyter of the church of Alexandria, in the fourth century, or to the doctrines of Arius, who held Christ to be inferior to God the Father in nature and dignity, though the first and noblest of all created beings. -- n. 
Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren. "An arid waste." Thomson. 
A battering-ram. 
Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake or crime; as, to worship God aright. 
See Ahriman. 
Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony. Mendelssohn wants the ariose beauty of Handel; vocal melody is not his forte; the interest of his airs harmonic. Foreign Quart. Rev. 
In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose. 
Rising. [Obs.] Drayton. 
of Arise, for ariseth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An awn. Gray. 
The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, which supported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied the most sacred place in the sanctuary. In it Moses placed the two tables of stone containing the ten commandments. Called also the Ark of the Covenant. 
Belonging to the ark. [R.] Faber. 
A sandstone derived from the disintegration of granite or gneiss, and characterized by feldspar fragments. -- Ar*kos"ic (#), a. 
An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain. [Scot.] Arles penny, earnest money given to servants. Kersey. 
To provide one's self with arms, weapons, or means of attack or resistance; to take arms. " 'Tis time to arm." Shak. 
A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanish fleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558. 
Armada. [Obs.] 
Having horns, beak, talons, etc; -- said of beasts and birds of prey. Armed at all points (Blazoning), completely incased in armor, sometimes described as armed cap-à-pie. Cussans. -- Armed en flute. (Naut.) See under Flute. -- Armed magnet, a magnet provided with an armature. -- Armed neutrality. See under Neutrality. 
A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries. 
As much as the arm can hold. 
A ring of hair or feathers on the legs. 
A piece of tallow placed in a cavity at the lower end of a sounding lead, to bring up the sand, shells, etc., of the sea bottom. Totten. 
Ammoniac. [Obs.] 
One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger. Judg. ix. 54. 
A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical. Simmonds. 
The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; the axilla. 
Anything which a man takes in his hand in anger, to strike or assault another with; an aggressive weapon. Cowell. Blackstone. 
The system by which a country raises, classifies, arranges, and equips its armed land forces. The usual divisions are: (1) A regular or active army, in which soldiers serve continuously with the colors and live in barracks or cantonments when not in the field; (2) the reserves of this army, in which the soldiers, while remaining constantly subject to a call to the colors, live at their homes, being summoned more or less frequently to report for instruction, drill, or maneuvers; and (3) one or more classes of soldiers organized largely for territorial defense, living at home and having only occasional periods of drill and instraction, who are variously called home reserves (as in the table below), second, third, etc., line of defense (the regular army and its reserves ordinarily constituting the first line of defense), territorial forces, or the like. In countries where conscription prevails a soldier is supposed to serve a given number of years.  He is usually enrolled first in the regular army, then passes to its reserve, then into the home reserves, to serve until he reaches the age limit. It for any reason he is not enrolled in the regular army, he may begin his service in the army reserves or even the home reserves, but then serves the full number of years or up to the age limit. In equipment the organization of the army is into the three great arms of infantry, cavalry, and artillery, together with more or less numerous other branches, such as engineers, medical corps, etc., besides the staff organizations such as those of the pay and subsistence departments. 
A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnica montana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as a narcotic and stimulant. 
Stand off, or begone. [Obs.] Aroint thee, witch, the rump-fed ronyon cries. Shak. 
To drive or scare off by some exclamation. [R.] "Whiskered cats arointed flee." Mrs. Browning. 
The stone pine (Pinus Cembra). 
Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong- scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam. Aromatic compound (Chem.), one of a large class of organic substances, as the oils of bitter almonds, wintergreen, and turpentine, the balsams, camphors, etc., many of which have an aromatic odor. They include many of the most important of the carbon compounds and may all be derived from the benzene group, C6H6. The term is extended also to many of their derivatives. -- Aromatic vinegar. See under Vinegar. 
A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate various medical remedies. [Obs.] 
The past or preterit tense of Arise. 
The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused. Whatever has associated itself with the arousal and activity of our better nature. Hare. 
To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put in motion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one from sleep; to arouse the dormant faculties. Grasping his spear, forth issued to arouse His brother, mighty sovereign on the host. Cowper. No suspicion was aroused. Merivale. 
In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order. Shak. And twenty, rank in rank, they rode arow. Dryden. 
See Aroint. 
An arpent. [Obs.] Webster (1623). 
See Orach. 
A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardent spirits. Arrack is often distilled from a fermented mixture of rice, molasses, and palm wine of the cocoanut tree or the date palm, etc. 
Notoriously or preëminently bad; thorough or downright, in a bad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward. I discover an arrant laziness in my soul. Fuller. 
Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen or hangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures. Stateliest couches, with rich arras spread. Cowper. Behind the arras I'll convey myself. Shak. 
To furnish with an arras. Chapman. 
To set in order, as a jury, for the trial of a cause; that is, to call them man by man. Blackstone. To array a panel, to set forth in order the men that are impaneled. Cowell. Tomlins. 
To or in the rear; behind; backwards. [Obs.] Spenser. 
That which is behind in payment, or which remains unpaid, though due; esp. a remainder, or balance which remains due when some part has been paid; arrearage; -- commonly used in the plural, as, arrears of rent, wages, or taxes. Locke. For much I dread due payment by the Greeks Of yesterday's arrear. Cowper. I have a large arrear of letters to write. J. D. Forbes. In arrear or In arrears, behind; backward; behindhand; in debt. 
To impute. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 
To take, seize, or apprehend by authority of law; as, to arrest one for debt, or for a crime. 
To tarry; to rest. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The taking or apprehending of a person by authority of law; legal restraint; custody. Also, a decree, mandate, or warrant. William . . . ordered him to be put under arrest. Macaulay. [Our brother Norway] sends out arrests On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys. Shak. 
Same as Aret. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Money or other valuable thing given to evidence a contract; a pledge or earnest. 
To please; to gratify. [Archaic] B. Jonson. Above all thy rarities, old Oxenford, what do most arride and solace me are thy repositories of moldering learning. Lamb. 
The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meeting each other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to the edges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate the flutings in a Doric column. P. Cyc. Arris fillet, a triangular piece of wood used to raise the slates of a roof against a chimney or wall, to throw off the rain. Gwilt. -- Arris gutter, a gutter of a V form fixed to the eaves of a building. Gwilt. 
The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish. [Eng.] [Written also arish, ersh, etc.] The moment we entered the stubble or arrish. Blackw. Mag. 
Arrival. [Obs.] Chaucer. How should I joy of thy arrive to hear! Drayton. 
The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in an overbearing manner; that species of pride which consists in exorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power, or which exalts the worth or importance of the person to an undue degree; proud contempt of others; lordliness; haughtiness; self-assumption; presumption. I hate not you for her proud arrogance. Shak. 
To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten. [Obs.] The blissful dew of heaven does arrose you. Two N. Kins. 
A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usually feathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow. Broad arrow. (a) An arrow with a broad head. (b) A mark placed upon British ordnance and government stores, which bears a rude resemblance to a broad arrowhead. 
See Arshine. 
The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; the fundament; the bottom. 
A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless and exceedingly poisonous gas, having and odor like garlic; arseniureted hydrogen. 
The elevation of the hand, or that part of the bar at which it is raised, in beating time; the weak or unaccented part of the bar; - - opposed to thesis. Moore. 
The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse of another man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious and voluntary firing of a building or ship. Wharton. 
The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, of the substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the plural are, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending of the second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn or poetical style. 
Those branches of learning which are taught in the academical course of colleges; as, master of arts. In fearless youth we tempt the heights of arts. Pope. Four years spent in the arts (as they are called in colleges) is, perhaps, laying too laborious a foundation. Goldsmith. 
One of the vessels or tubes which carry either venous or arterial blood from the heart. They have tricker and more muscular walls than veins, and are connected with them by capillaries. 
In an artful manner; with art or cunning; skillfully; dexterously; craftily. 
Same as Earthen. [Obs.] "An arthen pot." Holland. 
Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals the valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder. 
One peculiarly dexterous and tasteful in almost any employment, as an opera dancer, a hairdresser, a cook. 
With art or skill. [Obs.] 
A contraction of art thou. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A genus of plants found in central Europe and about the Mediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe. The cuckoopint of the English is an example. Our common arums the lords and ladies of village children. Lubbock. 
A funeral feast. [North of Eng.] Grose. 
Of or pertaining to the people called Aryans; Indo-European; Indo-Germanic; as, the Aryan stock, the Aryan languages. 
An ancient name of a gum. 
To go or move upward upon or along; to climb; to mount; to go up the top of; as, to ascend a hill, a ladder, a tree, a river, a throne. 
That may be ascertained. -- As`cer*tain"a*ble*ness, n. -- As`cer*tain"a*bly, adv. 
A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and other implements of archery. 
See Ascus. 
One of the Ascii. 
A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed the seedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certain fungi. 
Loss of power to express, or to understand, symbols or signs of thought. 
A genus of trees of the Olive family, having opposite pinnate leaves, many of the species furnishing valuable timber, as the European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and the white ash (F. Americana). Prickly ash (Zanthoxylum Americanum) and Poison ash (Rhus venenata) are shrubs of different families, somewhat resembling the true ashes in their foliage. -- Mountain ash. See Roman tree, and under Mountain. 
sing. of Ashes. 
To strew or sprinkle with ashes. Howell. 
To shame. [R.] Barrow. 
Of or pertaining to the ash tree. "Ashen poles." Dryden. 
Consisting of, or resembling, ashes; of a color between brown and gray, or white and gray. The ashen hue of age. Sir W. Scott. 
obs. pl. for Ashes. Chaucer. 
A low fire used in chemical operations. 
Shining; radiant. 
On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to the shore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship); -- sometimes opposed to aboard or afloat. Here shall I die ashore. Shak. I must fetch his necessaries ashore. Shak. 
Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic. "Asian princes." Jer. Taylor. -- n. 
Something spoken aside; as, a remark made by a stageplayer which the other players are not supposed to hear. 
A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including the bee killer and robber fly. 
Want of appetite; loathing of food. 
A water newt. [Scot. & North of Eng.] 
One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer. Shak. 
An ask; a water newt. [Local Eng.] 
Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimes indicating scorn, or contempt, or entry. Spenser. 
To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish. [Archaic] Chaucer. 
Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely. [The shaft] drove through his neck aslant. Dryden. 
In a slanting direction over; athwart. There is a willow grows aslant a brook. Shak. 
Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction; sloping. "Set them not upright, but aslope." Bacon. 
Sluggishly. [Obs.] Fotherby. 
Smeared over. Dickens. 
Soaking. 
Same as Aspen. "Trembling poplar or asp." Martyn. 
A small, hooded, poisonous serpent of Egypt and adjacent countries, whose bite is often fatal. It is the Naja haje. The name is also applied to other poisonous serpents, esp. to Vipera aspis of southern Europe. See Haje. 
The situation of planets or stars with respect to one another, or the angle formed by the rays of light proceeding from them and meeting at the eye; the joint look of planets or stars upon each other or upon the earth. Milton. 
To behold; to look at. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to the aspen, or resembling it; made of aspen wood. Nor aspen leaves confess the gentlest breeze. Gay. 
Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce. [Archaic] "An asper sound." Bacon. 
The rough breathing; a mark placed over an initial vowel sound or over h before it; thus hws, pronounced h, hrj'twr, pronounced hra\'b6t. 
A Turkish money of account (formerly a coin), of little value; the 120th part of a piaster. 
A European species of lavender (Lavandula spica), which produces a volatile oil. See Spike. 
A savory meat jelly containing portions of fowl, game, fish, hard boiled eggs, etc. Thackeray. 
To aspire to; to long for; to try to reach; to mount to. [Obs.] That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds. Shak. 
Aspiration. [Obs.] Chapman. 
Pertaining to, or like, an asp. 
Squatting. 
A quadruped of the genus Equus (E. asinus), smaller than the horse, and having a peculiarly harsh bray and long ears. The tame or domestic ass is patient, slow, and sure-footed, and has become the type of obstinacy and stupidity. There are several species of wild asses which are swift-footed. 
A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow. 
Capable of being assailed. 
The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thus destroying the tickets or coverts of a forest. Spelman. Cowell. 
To grub up, as trees; to commit an assart upon; as, to assart land or trees. Ashmole. 
The act or process of ascertaining the proportion of a particular metal in an ore or alloy; especially, the determination of the proportion of gold or silver in bullion or coin. 
To attempt, try, or endeavor. [Archaic. In this sense essay is now commonly used.] She thrice assayed to speak. Dryden. 
A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama) of South Africa, valued for its fur. 
To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement, acquiescence, concurrence, or concession. Who informed the governor . . . And the Jews also assented, saying that these things were so. Acts xxiv. 9. The princess assented to all that was suggested. Macaulay. 
The act of assenting; the act of the mind in admitting or agreeing to anything; concurrence with approval; consent; agreement; acquiescence. Faith is the assent to any proposition, on the credit of the proposer. Locke. The assent, if not the approbation, of the prince. Prescott. Too many people read this ribaldry with assent and admiration. Macaulay. Royal assent, in England, the assent of the sovereign to a bill which has passed both houses of Parliament, after which it becomes law. 
One who asserts; one who avers pr maintains; an assertor. The inflexible asserter of the rights of the church. Milman. 
Liable to be assessed or taxed; as, assessable property. 
Any article or separable part of one's assets. 
See Asseverate. [Archaic] 
To transfer, or make over to another, esp. to transfer to, and vest in, certain persons, called assignees, for the benefit of creditors. To assign dower, to set out by metes and bounds the widow's share or portion in an estate. Kent. 
A thing pertaining or belonging to something else; an appurtenance. [Obs.] Six French rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdles, hangers, and so. Shak. 
A person to whom property or an interest is transferred; as, a deed to a man and his heirs and assigns. 
Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate. Such . . . appear to be of the assich kind . . . Udall. 
To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time of distress; to help; to aid; to succor. Assist me, knight. I am undone! Shak. 
Of the second grade in the staff of the army; as, an assistant surgeon. [U.S.] 
An officer who has the care or inspection of weights and measures, etc. 
To soil; to stain. [Obs. or Poet.] Beau. & Fl. Ne'er assoil my cobwebbed shield. Wordsworth. 
To agree; to be in accordance; to be adapted; to suit; to fall into a class or place. Mitford. 
To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate. [Obs.] Some ecstasy assotted had his sense. Spenser. 
Dazed; foolish; infatuated. [Obs.] Willie, I ween thou be assot. Spenser. 
To undertake, as by a promise. Burrill. 
To insure; to covenant to indemnify for loss, or to pay a specified sum at death. See Insure. 
Same as Astert. [Obs.] 
Estate; state. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An anchor is said to be astay, in heaving it, an acute angle is formed between the cable and the surface of the water. 
An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads in a mine. 
A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers; starwort; Michaelmas daisy. 
Not sternal; -- said of ribs which do not join the sternum. 
To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To escape. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to a spasmodic contraction of the bronchi), recurring at intervals, accompanied with a wheezing sound, a sense of constriction in the chest, a cough, and expectoration. 
Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed. 
To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay. [Archaic] The captain of the Helots . . . strake Palladius upon the side of his head, that he reeled astonied. Sir P. Sidney. This sodeyn cas this man astonied so, That reed he wex, abayst, and al quaking. Chaucer. 
In a stooping or inclined position. Gay. 
Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry; starlike. Shines only with an astral luster. I. Taylor. Some astral forms I must invoke by prayer. Dryden. Astral lamp, an Argand lamp so constructed that no shadow is cast upon the table by the flattened ring-shaped reservoir in which the oil is contained. -- Astral spirits, spirits formerly supposed to live in the heavenly bodies or the aërial regions, and represented in the Middle Ages as fallen angels, spirits of the dead, or spirits originating in fire. 
Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense; wandering; as, to lead one astray. Ye were as sheep going astray. 1 Pet. ii. 25. 
Subtle; cunning; astute. [R.] Sir W. Scott. -- As*tu"cious*ly, adv. [R.] 
To stun. [Obs.] "Breathless and astunned." Somerville. 
Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty. 
An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants. 
The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus) of India. 
To stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In a state of swinging. 
In a swoon. Chaucer. 
Incommensurable; also, unsymmetrical. [Obs.] D. H. More. 
A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors. Croly. 
To overtake. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks. 
Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism. 
Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a) by great irregularity of functions or symptoms, or (b) by a want of coordinating power in movements. Ataxic fever, malignant typhus fever. Pinel. 
The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
the preterit of Eat. 
The goddess of mischievous folly; also, in later poets, the goddess of vengeance. 
A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and having the thumb wanting or rudimentary. See Spider monkey, and Coaita. 
To repent; to displease; to disgust. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights. Mitford. 
The first vertebra of the neck, articulating immediately with the skull, thus sustaining the globe of the head, whence the name. 
A rich kind of satin manufactured in India. Brande & C. 
Treatment of disease by vapors or gases, as by inhalation. 
The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physical measurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under which the barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0º Centigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris. Sir W. Thomson. 
A porridge or gruel of maize meal and water, milk, or the like. [Sp. Amer.] 
A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef, partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; a lagoon island. 
The smallest particle of matter that can enter into combination; one of the elementary constituents of a molecule. 
To reduce to atoms. [Obs.] Feltham. 
An atom; a mite; a pigmy. 
A skeleton. [Ludicrous] Shak. 
One who makes atonement. 
Etym: [See At one.] [Obs.] Down he fell atones as a stone. Chaucer. 
Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonic disease. 
A word that has no accent. 
Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ, especially of such as are contractile. 
On or at the top. Milton. 
To surpass in council. [Obs.] Men may the olde atrenne, but hat atrede. Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to an atrium. 
The main part of either auricle of the heart as distinct from the auricular appendix. Also, the whole articular portion of the heart. 
Coal-black; very black. 
A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurian limestones. 
An attachment. [Obs.] Pope. 
To make an onset or attack. 
Capable of being attacked. 
Attainment. [Obs.] 
Same as Attle. 
To corrupt; to defile; to contaminate. [Obs.] Blount. 
A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant essential oil obtained from the petals of roses. [Also written otto and ottar.] 
To take to task; to blame. Shak. 
At the. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The quality of attending or accompanying; attendance; an attendant. [Obs.] 
Attentive; heedful. [Archaic] Let thine ears be attent unto the prayer. 2 Chron. vi. 40. 
Attention; heed. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore. [Obs.] Holland. 
Witness; testimony; attestation. [R.] The attest of eyes and ears. Shak. 
Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, its principal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic of the Athenians; classical; refined. Attic base (Arch.), a peculiar form of molded base for a column or pilaster, described by Vitruvius, applied under the Roman Empire to the Ionic and Corinthian and "Roman Doric" orders, and imitated by the architects of the Renaissance. -- Attic faith, inviolable faith. -- Attic purity, special purity of language. -- Attic salt, Attic wit, a poignant, delicate wit, peculiar to the Athenians. -- Attic story. See Attic, n. -- Attic style, a style pure and elegant. 
Attic. [Obs.] Hammond. 
To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant or splendid garments. Finely attired in a robe of white. Shak. With the linen miter shall he be attired. Lev. xvi. 4. 
The internal parts of a flower, included within the calyx and the corolla. [Obs.] Johnson. 
Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing little or no ore. Weale. 
See At one. [Obs.] 
To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord to another. This is the act of feudatories, vassals, or tenants, upon the alienation of the estate. Blackstone. 
To entrap; to insnare. [Obs.] Grafton. 
To adorn with trapping; to array. [Obs.] Shall your horse be attrapped . . . more richly Holland. 
Poisonous; malignant; malicious. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In twain; asunder. [Obs. or Poetic] "Cuts atwain the knots." Tennyson. 
Between. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson. 
Twisted; distorted; awry. [R.] Halliwell. 
To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid. [Obs.] 
Betwixt. [Obs.] Spenser. 
In two; in twain; asunder. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from an evening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive of morning. Grove. The crowing cock . . . Sang his aubade with lusty voice and clear. Longfellow. 
An alb. [Obs.] Fuller. 
A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; -- commonly called a Canterbury gallop. 
The part of the neck nearest the back. 
One whose thoughts take the form of mental sounds or of internal discourse rather than of visual or motor images. 
To examine and adjust, as an account or accounts; as, to audit the accounts of a treasure, or of parties who have a suit depending in court. 
To settle or adjust an account. Let Hocus audit; he knows how the money was disbursed. Arbuthnot. 
A changeling or elf child, -- that is, one left by fairies; a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an oaf. [Obs.] Drayton. 
Of or pertaining to Augeus, king of Elis, whose stable contained 3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years. Hercules cleansed it in a single day. 
A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery, or place where the slow match is applied. Knight. 
Anything; any part. [Also written ought.] There failed not aught of any good thing which the Lord has spoken. Josh. xxi. 45 But go, my son, and see if aught be wanting. Addison. 
At all; in any degree. Chaucer. 
A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color, occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead of the general term pyroxene. 
See Algorism. [Obs.] Chaucer. Augrim stones, pebbles formerly used in numeration. -- Noumbres of Augrim, Arabic numerals. Chaucer. 
An official diviner who foretold events by the singing, chattering, flight, and feeding of birds, or by signs or omens derived from celestial phenomena, certain appearances of quadrupeds, or unusual occurrences. 
To predict or foretell, as from signs or omens; to betoken; to presage; to infer. It seems to augur genius. Sir W. Scott. I augur everything from the approbation the proposal has met with. J. F. W. Herschel. 
Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having exalted birth, character, state, or authority. "Forms august." Pope. "August in visage." Dryden. "To shed that august blood." Macaulay. So beautiful and so august a spectacle. Burke. To mingle with a body so august. Byron. 
The eighth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. 
A name given to various species of arctic sea birds of the family Alcidæ. The great auk, now extinct, is Alca (or Plautus) impennis. The razor-billed auk is A. torda. See Puffin, Guillemot, and Murre. 
Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky), i. e., Edinburgh. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 
Pertaining to a royal court. Ecclesiastical wealth and aulic dignities. Landor. Aulic council (Hist.), a supreme court of the old German empire; properly the supreme court of the emperor. It ceased at the death of each emperor, and was renewed by his successor. It became extinct when the German empire was dissolved, in 1806. The term is now applied to a council of the war department of the Austrian empire, and the members of different provincial chanceries of that empire are called aulic councilors. P. Cyc. 
The ceremony observed in conferring the degree of doctor of divinity in some European universities. It begins by a harangue of the chancellor addressed to the young doctor, who then receives the cap, and presides at the disputation (also called the aulic). 
An ell. [Obs.] See Aune. 
Same as Aam. 
To figure or variegate. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Same as Ambry. 
A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if a place for alms. 
A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerly used in England. Halliwell. 
A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (at Paris, 0.95 of an English ell); -- now superseded by the meter. 
Adventure; hap. [Obs.] In aunters, perchance. 
The peculiar sensation, as of a light vapor, or cold air, rising from the trunk or limbs towards the head, a premonitory symptom of epilepsy or hysterics. Electric ~, a supposed electric fluid, emanating from an electrified body, and forming a mass surrounding it, called the electric atmosphere. See Atmosphere, 2. 
Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura. 
Of or pertaining to the ear; as, aural medicine and surgery. 
A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate or potassium. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those compounds of gold in which this element has its higher valence; as, auric oxide; auric chloride. 
The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northern hemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini. It contains the bright star Capella. 
A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, in commerce, yellow coralin. 
One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear. 
The Roman personification of the dawn of day; the goddess of the morning. The poets represented her a rising out of the ocean, in a chariot, with rosy fingers dropping gentle dew. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those compounds of gold in which this element has its lower valence; as, aurous oxide. 
Gold. Aurum fulminans (See Fulminate. -- Aurum mosaicum (See Mosaic. 
The south wind. Pope. 
Augustinian; as, Austin friars. 
See Army organization, Switzerland. 
A female author. Glover. 
A lemon-yellow phosphate of uranium and calcium occurring in tabular crystals with basal cleavage, and in micalike scales. H., 2- 2.5. Sp. gr., 3.05-3.19. 
Same as Kava. Johnston. 
To be of use or advantage; to answer the purpose; to have strength, force, or efficacy sufficient to accomplish the object; as, the plea in bar must avail, that is, be sufficient to defeat the suit; this scheme will not avail; medicines will not avail to check the disease. "What signs avail " Milton. Words avail very little with me, young man. Sir W. Scott. 
Proceeds; as, the avails of a sale by auction. The avails of their own industry. Stoddard. 
See Avale, v. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To descend; to fall; to dismount. [Obs.] And from their sweaty courses did avale. Spenser. 
The front of an army. [Obs.] See Van. 
Cease; stop; stay. "Avast heaving." Totten. 
The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a man or an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu. 
Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalent to the phrase "Get thee gone." 
To vaunt; to boast. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A vaunt; to boast. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To pull away. [Obs.] Yet are not these parts avelled. Sir T. Browne. 
A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa); the oat grasses. 
An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide oats for the horses. [Obs.] 
To take vengeance. Levit. xix. 18. 
Vengeance; revenge. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See Avener. [Obs.] 
A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet. 
A work horse, or working ox. [Obs. or Dial. Eng.] 
To avouch or verify; to offer to verify; to prove or justify. See Averment. 
To turn away. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object; to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how can the danger be averted "To avert his ire." Milton. When atheists and profane persons do hear of so many discordant and contrary opinions in religion, it doth avert them from the church. Bacon. Till ardent prayer averts the public woe. Prior. 
To turn away. [Archaic] Cold and averting from our neighbor's good. Thomson. 
The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds. 
The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta. 
One who works a mine with means provided by another. [Sp. Amer. & Southwestern U. S.] 
Of or instrument to birds. 
A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping birds confined; a bird house. Lincolnshire may be termed the aviary of England. Fuller. 
To fly, or navigate the air, in an aëroplane or heavier-than- air flying machine. [Colloq.] 
Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy. "Avid of gold, yet greedier of renown." Southey. 
Emulously. [Obs.] 
To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate. [Obs.] Want makes us know the price of what we avile. B. Jonson. 
Advice; opinion; deliberation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To consider; to reflect. [Obs.] 
The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropical America. It is about the size and shape of a large pear; -- called also avocado pear, alligator pear, midshipman's butter. 
An advocate. 
To defeat or evade; to invalidate. Thus, in a replication, the plaintiff may deny the defendant's plea, or confess it, and avoid it by stating new matter. Blackstone. 
To become void or vacant. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 
To call from or back again. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 
Same as Avocet. 
Evidence; declaration. [Obs.] The sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes. Shak. 
To acknowledge and justify, as an act done. See Avowry. Blackstone. 
Avowal. [Obs.] Dryden. 
To bind, or to devote, by a vow. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
A vow or determination. [Archaic] 
An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal of such principles. Hume. 
Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted. -- A*vow"ed*ly (, adv. 
The person who has a right to present to a benefice; the patron; an advowee. See Advowson. 
One who avows or asserts. 
Adultery. See Advoutry. 
A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of Switzerland. [Obs.] 
To pluck or pull off. Shenstone. 
A waiting for; ambush; watch; watching; heed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep; and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction or death. The national spirit again awoke. Freeman. Awake to righteousness, and sin not. 1 Cor. xv. 34. 
Not sleeping or lethargic; roused from sleep; in a state of vigilance or action. Before whom awake I stood. Milton. She still beheld, Now wide awake, the vision of her sleep. Keats. He was awake to the danger. Froude. 
To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake. [He] is dispatched Already to awaken whom thou nam'st. Cowper. Their consciences are thoroughly awakened. Tillotson. 
To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign or apportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; to adjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant. To review The wrongful sentence, and award a new. Dryden. 
To determine; to make an ~. 
One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicial determination; a judge. 
To warn. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip of shore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface of the water, so that the waves break over it. 
Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe until after its expiration; -- said of crops. Wharton. 
To strike with fear and reverence; to inspire with awe; to control by inspiring dread. That same eye whose bend doth awe the world. Shak. His solemn and pathetic exhortation awed and melted the bystanders. Macaulay. 
Weary. [Poetic] "I begin to be aweary of thee." Shak. 
Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly; atrip; -- said of the anchor. Totten. 
To confound; to terrify; to amaze. [Obs.] Spenser. 
For a while; for some time; for a short time. 
On the wing; flying; fluttering. Wallace. 
Perversely; in the wrong way. L'Estrange. 
A squad of inapt recruits assembled for special drill. 
A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather or wood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade is differently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the brad awl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc. 
The quality of being awless. 
See Aam. 
The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or any similar bristlelike appendage; arista. Gray. 
Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded. Gray. 
Furnished with an awning. 
Having awns; bearded. 
At work; in action. "Set awork." Shak. 
Wrongly. Ford. 
Same as Awesome. 
[See Axial.] [R.] 
Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; or to the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones. Axial line (Magnetism), the line taken by the magnetic force in passing from one pole of a horseshoe magnet to the other. Faraday. 
The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of a branch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which it springs. Gray. 
Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies in the axis of a seed. Gray. 
The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder. 
A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for granted; as, "The whole is greater than a part;" "A thing can not, at the same time, be and not be." 
The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, where it is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name). 
A straight line, real or imaginary, passing through a body, on which it revolves, or may be supposed to revolve; a line passing through a body or system around which the parts are symmetrically arranged. 
Having an axle; -- used in composition. Merlin's agate-axled car. T. Warton. 
One who wields an ax. 
Axle or axletree. [Obs.] Drayton. 
Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.), lard prepared for medical use. 
A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid. [India] 
An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, "To call for the ayes and noes;" "The ayes have it." 
A grandfather. [Obs.] Writ of Ayle, an ancient English writ which lay against a stranger who had dispossessed the demandant of land of which his grandfather died seized. 
The utterance of the ejaculation "Ay me !" [Obs.] See Ay, interj. "Aymees and hearty heigh-hoes." J. Fletcher. 
Beyond. [North of Eng.] 
Beyond. [Scot.] 
A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China or of North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinct from Rhododendron. 
Lit.: Quicksilver; hence: pl. (Mining) 
Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animal life; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there was no animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks. Azoic age (Geol.), the age preceding the existence of animal life, or anterior to the paleozoic tome. Azoic is also used as a noun, age being understood. See Archæan, and Eozoic. 
Any of a large class of compounds characterized by a five- membered ring which contains an atom of nitrogen and at least one other noncarbon atom (nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur). The prefixes furo-, thio, and pyrro-are used to distinguish three subclasses of azoles, which may be regarded as derived respectively from furfuran, thiophene, and pyrrol by replacement of the CH group by nitrogen; as, furo-monazole. Names exactly analogous to those for the azines are also used; as, oxazole, diazole, etc. 
Confined to no zone or region; not local. 
Same as Nitrogen. [R.] 
Nitrogenized; nitrogenous. 
Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting of azote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid. [R.] Carpenter. 
Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico that inhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of the Spanish conquest in 1519. -- n. 
Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky; cerulean; also, cloudless. Azure stone (Min.), the lapis lazuli; also, the lazulite. 
A blue color, represented in engraving by horizontal parallel lines. 
To color blue. 
Of an azure color; sky-blue. "The azured harebell." Shak. 
Azure. [Obs.] Thick set with agate, and the azurn sheen Of turkis blue, and emerald green. Milton. 
Azymous. 
To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep. He treble baas for help, but none can get. Sir P. Sidney. 
The cry or bleating of a sheep; a bleat. 
The bleating of a sheep. Marryat. 
The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitish nations. 
Lit., gate; -- a title given to the founder of Babism, and taken from that of Bab-ud-Din, assumed by him. 
A kind of plum cake. 
Babble. Hawthorne. 
Babyhood. [R.] Udall. 
Finery of a kind to please a child. [Obs.] "Painted babery." Sir P. Sidney. 
Like a babe; a childish; babyish. [R.] "Babish imbecility." Drayton. -- Bab"ish*ly, adv. -- Bab"ish*ness, n. [R.] 
The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated in Persia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish and Parsee elements. 
A believer in Babism. 
The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia; neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeing drab. 
One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus and Papio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and large canine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities on the buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, and Drill an ape. 
An infant or young child of either sex; a babe. 
Pertaining to, or resembling, an infant; young or little; as, baby swans. "Baby figure" Shak. 
To treat like a young child; to keep dependent; to humor; to fondle. Young. 
Pertaining to a bachelor of arts. Baccalaureate sermon, in some American colleges, a sermon delivered as a farewell discourse to a graduating class. 
See Base. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The keel and keelson of a ship. 
To change from one quarter to another by a course opposite to that of the sun; -- used of the wind. 
See Bacharach. 
Having a back; fitted with a back; as, a backed electrotype or stereotype plate. Used in composition; as, broad- backed; hump- backed. 
One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs a person or thing in a contest. 
Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides. 
The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, the flesh of a pig salted or fresh. Bacon beetle (Zoöl.), a beetle (Dermestes lardarius) which, especially in the larval state, feeds upon bacon, woolens, furs, etc. See Dermestes. -- To save one's bacon, to save one's self or property from harm or less. [Colloq.] 
See Bascule. 
of Bid. Bade. [Obs.] Dryden. 
Wanting good qualities, whether physical or moral; injurious, hurtful, inconvenient, offensive, painful, unfavorable, or defective, either physically or morally; evil; vicious; wicked; -- the opposite of good; as a bad man; bad conduct; bad habits; bad soil; bad health; bad crop; bad news. 
A person given to idle observation of everything, with wonder or astonishment; a credulous or gossipy idler. 
compar. of Bad, a. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A form of the pat tense of Bid. 
A carved ornament on the stern of a vessel, containing a window or the representation of one. 
To mark or distinguish with a badge. 
An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; a hawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who bought grain in one place and sold it in another. [Now dialectic, Eng.] 
The method of blackmailing by decoying a person into a compromising situation and extorting money by threats of exposure. [Cant] 
An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illicium anisatum), and its aromatic seeds; Chinese anise; star anise. 
In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly; unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably; seriously. 
A blow; a stroke. [Scot.] H. Miller. 
A defeat by artifice, shifts, and turns; discomfiture. [R.] "A baffle to philosophy." South. 
A short wooden club having a deeply concave face, seldom used. 
Same as Bafta. 
A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India. Also, an imitation of this fabric made for export. 
A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary to carry to market in a sack; as, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag of coffee. Bag and baggage, all that belongs to one. -- To give one the bag, to disappoint him. [Obs.] Bunyan. 
Sugar cane, as it 
Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag; flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks. 
A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders for manufacturers and tradesmen. Thackeray. 
A musical wind instrument, now used chiefly in the Highlands of Scotland. 
The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaft or clustered column into two or more parts. 
A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back of the head in a bag. 
An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt. Twenty-five years ago the vile ejaculation, Bah! was utterly unknown to the English public. De Quincey. 
A member of the sect of the Babis consisting of the adherents of Baha (Mirza Husain Ali, entitled "Baha 'u 'llah," or, "the Splendor of God"), the elder half brother of Mirza Yahya of Nur, who succeeded the Bab as the head of the Babists. Baha in 1863 declared himself the supreme prophet of the sect, and became its recognized head. There are upwards of 20,000 Bahais in the United States. 
A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varying considerably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625 pounds. 
To soak or drench. [Obs.] 
A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat. [Obs.] The bail of a canoe . . . made of a human skull. Capt. Cook. 
A line of palisades serving as an exterior defense. [Written also bayle.] [Obs.] 
The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has a temporary possession and a qualified property in them, for the purposes of the trust. Blackstone. 
See Bailor. 
An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded to that of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman. 
One who delivers goods or money to another in trust. 
A bath; a bagnio. [Obs.] Holland. 
The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held at the close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy days after the fast. 
A child. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Has he not well provided for the bairn ! Beau. & Fl. 
To stop to take a portion of food and drink for refreshment of one's self or one's beasts, on a journey. Evil news rides post, while good news baits. Milton. My lord's coach conveyed me to Bury, and thence baiting aEvelyn. 
To flap the wings; to flutter as if to fly; or to hover, as a hawk when she stoops to her prey. "Kites that bait and beat." Shak. 
One who baits; a tormentor. 
A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain colors. A new black baize waistcoat lined with silk. Pepys. 
The process, or result, of baking. 
p. p. of Bake. [Obs. or. Archaic] 
Having legs that bend inward at the knees. 
In a hot or baking manner. 
A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out a newspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's ass speaking. Numb. xxii. 30. [Cant] Balaam basket or box (Print.), the receptacle for rejected articles. Blackw. Mag. 
A West Indian sapotaceous tree (Bumelia retusa). 
A balcony. [Obs.] Pepys. 
Destitute of a beard or awn; as, bald wheat. 
The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace; the son of Odin and Freya. [Written also Baldur.] 
Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly. 
A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded for storage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw Bale of dice, a pair of dice. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To make up in a bale. Goldsmith. 
See Bail, v. t., to lade. 
Of or pertaining to the isles of Majorca, Minorca, Ivica, etc., in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Valencia. Balearic crane. (Zoöl.) See Crane. 
Plates or blades of "whalebone," from two to twelve feet long, and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balænoidea) are attached side by side along the upper jaw, and form a fringelike sieve by which the food is retained in the mouth. 
A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark. 
One of the beams connecting the successive supports of a trestle bridge or bateau bridge. 
To indicate to fishermen, by shouts or signals from shore, the direction taken by the shoals of herring. 
One who, or that which balks. 
A person who stands on a rock or eminence to espy the shoals of herring, etc., and to give notice to the men in boats which way they pass; a conder; a huer. 
Apt to balk; as, a balky horse. 
A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled with combustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or to produce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball. 
To gather balls which cling to the feet, as of damp snow or clay; to gather into balls; as, the horse balls; the snow balls. 
To heat in a furnace and form into balls for rolling. 
A social assembly for the purpose of dancing. 
A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation or singing; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental or romantic poem in short stanzas. 
To make or sing ballads. [Obs.] 
To make mention of in ballads. [Obs.] 
A light part song, or madrigal, with a fa la burden or chorus, -- most common with the Elizabethan madrigal composers. 
To vote or decide by ballot; as, to ballot for a candidate. 
To vote for or in opposition to. None of the competitors arriving to a sufficient number of balls, they fell to ballot some others. Sir H. Wotton. 
A cudgel. [Obs.] Shak. 
An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa. 
To anoint with balm, or with anything medicinal. Hence: To soothe; to mitigate. [Archaic] Shak. 
Of or pertaining to a bath. Howell. 
A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of South America. 
To treat or anoint with balsam; to relieve, as with balsam; to render balsamic. 
To stick together.[Obs.] Holland. 
Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Sweden from Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea. 
An imposition; a cheat; a hoax. Garrick. To relieve the tediumbams. Prof. Wilson. 
To cheat; to wheedle. [Slang] Foote. 
A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing in tropical countries. 
To flog with the bamboo. 
A calling together of the king's (esp. the French king's) vassals for military service; also, the body of vassals thus assembled or summoned. In present usage, in France and Prussia, the most effective part of the population liable to military duty and not in the standing army. 
To curse; to swear. [Obs.] Spenser. 
An ancient title of the warden of the eastern marches of Hungary; now, a title of the viceroy of Croatia and Slavonia. 
Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite. 
A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musa sapientum); also, its edible fruit. See Musa. 
The territory governed by a ban. 
An ornamental covering, as of carpet or leather, for a bench or form. 
A bank, especially that of Venice. 
Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of a clerical, legal, or academic dress. 
To confederate for some common purpose; to unite; to conspire together. Certain of the Jews banded together. Acts xxiii. 12. 
To bandy; to drive away. [Obs.] 
of Bind. [Obs.] 
One banded with others. [R.] 
An outlaw; a brigand. No savage fierce, bandit, or mountaineer. Milton. 
An Irish measure of two feet in length. 
A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chained or tied up. The keeper entered leading his bandog, a large bloodhound, tied in a leam, or band, from which he takes his name. Sir W. Scott. 
Disposal; control; license. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks. 
To content, as at some game in which each strives to drive the ball his own way. Fit to bandy with thy lawless sons. Shak. 
Bent; crooked; curved laterally, esp. with the convex side outward; as, a bandy leg. 
To be the bane of; to ruin. [Obs.] Fuller. 
To make a loud noise, as if with a blow or succession of blows; as, the window blind banged and waked me; he was banging on the piano. 
To cut squarely across, as the tail of a hors, or the forelock of human beings; to cut (the hair). His hair banged even with his eyebrows. The Century Mag. 
The short, front hair combed down over the forehead, esp. when cut squarely across; a false front of hair similarly worn. His hair cut in front like a young lady's bang. W. D. Howells. 
To waste by little and little; to fritter away. [Obs.] 
An ornamental circlet, of glass, gold, silver, or other material, worn by women in India and Africa, and in some other countries, upon the wrist or ankle; a ring bracelet. Bangle ear, a loose hanging ear of a horse, like that of a spaniel. 
The Indian fig. See Banyan. Banian days (Naut.), days in which the sailors have no flesh meat served out to them. This use seems to be borrowed from the Banians or Banya race, who eat no flesh. 
One who banishes. 
A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the guitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and is played with the fingers and hands. 
A sort of table used by printers. 
The sum of money or the checks which the dealer or banker has as a fund, from which to draw his stakes and pay his losses. 
To deposit in a bank. 
Receivable at a bank. 
A female banker. Thackeray. 
Decorated with a banner or banners "bannered host." Milton. 
Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or other place prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if he knows of just cause why the marriage should not take place. 
A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probably brought from Bantam, a district of Java. 
The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good- humored raillery; pleasantry. Part banter, part affection. Tennyson. 
A member of one of the great family of Negroid tribes occupying equatorial and southern Africa. These tribes include, as important divisions, the Kafirs, Damaras, Bechuanas, and many tribes whose names begin with Aba-, Ama-, Ba-, Ma-, Wa-, variants of the Bantu plural personal prefix Aba-, as in Ba-ntu, or Aba-ntu, itself a combination of this prefix with the syllable -ntu, a person. -- Ban"tu, a. 
A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called the Indian fig (Ficus Indica), whose branches send shoots to the ground, which take root and become additional trunks, until it may be the tree covers some acres of ground and is able to shelter thousands of men. 
Lit., May you live ten thousand years; -- used in salutation of the emperor and as a battle cry. [Japan] 
A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata), also naturalized in India. See Adansonia. 
An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifth part of the field. 
An international, interdenominational organization of Bible classes of young men; -- so named in allusion to the Hebrew word Berachah (Meaning blessing) occurring in 2 Chron. xx. 26 and 1 Chron. xii. 
The pressure of one dyne per square centimeter; -- used as a unit of pressure. 
Paps, or little projections, of the mucous membrane, which mark the opening of the submaxillary glands under the tongue in horses and cattle. The name is mostly applied when the barbs are inflamed and swollen. [Written also barbel and barble.] 
A blackish or dun variety of the pigeon, originally brought from Barbary. 
Armor for a horse. Same as 2d Bard, n., 1. 
Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse. See Barded ( which is the proper form.) Sir W. Raleigh. 
Furnished with a barb or barbs; as, a barbed arrow; barbed wire. Barbed wire, a wire, or a strand of twisted wires, armed with barbs or sharp points. It is used for fences. 
A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished. 
One whose occupation it is to shave or trim the beard, and to cut and dress the hair of his patrons. Barber's itch. See under Itch. 
To shave and dress the beard or hair of. Shak. 
A mound of earth or a platform in a fortification, on which guns are mounted to fire over the parapet. En barbette, In barbette, said of guns when they are elevated so as to fire over the top of a parapet, and not through embrasures. -- Barbette gun, or Barbette battery, a single gun, or a number of guns, mounted in barbette, or partially protected by a parapet or turret. -- Barbette carriage, a gun carriage which elevates guns sufficiently to be in barbette. [See Illust. of Casemate.] 
See Barbel. 
Barbarian. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean. 
Defensive armor formerly worn by a man at arms. 
To cover (meat or game) with a thin slice of fat bacon. 
Wearing rich caparisons. Fifteen hundred men . . . barded and richly trapped. Stow. 
Of or pertaining to bards, or their poetry. "The bardic lays of ancient Greece." G. P. Marsh. 
That part of a roofing slate, shingle, tile, or metal plate, which is exposed to the weather. 
To strip off the covering of; to make bare; as, to bare the breast. 
Bore; the old preterit of Bear, v. 
A gauzelike fabric for ladies' dresses, veils, etc. of worsted, silk and worsted, or cotton and worsted. 
Having the neck bare. 
Full of obstructions. [Obs.] Shak. 
A vergeboard. 
A bargeman. [Eng.] 
The manager of a barge. [Obs.] 
Baryta. 
Of or pertaining to barium; as, baric oxide. 
Of or pertaining to weight, esp. to the weight or pressure of the atmosphere as measured by the barometer. 
Native sulphate of barium, a mineral occurring in transparent, colorless, white to yellow crystals (generally tabular), also in granular form, and in compact massive forms resembling marble. It has a high specific gravity, and hence is often called heavy spar. It is a common mineral in metallic veins. 
One of the elements, belonging to the alkaline earth group; a metal having a silver-white color, and melting at a very high temperature. It is difficult to obtain the pure metal, from the facility with which it becomes oxidized in the air. Atomic weight, 137. Symbol, Ba. Its oxide called baryta. [Rarely written barytum.] 
The short, loud, explosive sound uttered by a dog; a similar sound made by some other animals. 
Made of bark. [Poetic] Whittier. 
The spotted redshank. 
One who strips trees of their bark. 
Covered with, or containing, bark. "The barky fingers of the elm." Shak. 
A valuable grain, of the family of grasses, genus Hordeum, used for food, and for making malt, from which are prepared beer, ale, and whisky. Barley bird (Zoöl.), the siskin. -- Barley sugar, sugar boiled till it is brittle (formerly with a decoction of barley) and candied. -- Barley water, a decoction of barley, used in medicine, as a nutritive and demulcent. 
Foam rising upon beer, or other malt liquors, when fermenting, and used as leaven in making bread and in brewing; yeast. Shak. 
The lap or bosom. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Full of barm or froth; in a ferment. "Barmy beer." Dryden. 
Full of barm or froth; in a ferment. "Barmy beer."  Dryden. 
A covered building used chiefly for storing grain, hay, and other productions of a farm. In the United States a part of the barn is often used for stables. Barn owl (Zoöl.), an owl of Europe and America (Aluco flammeus, or Strix flammea), which frequents barns and other buildings. -- Barn swallow (Zoöl.), the common American swallow (Hirundo horreorum), which attaches its nest of mud to the beams and rafters of barns. 
To lay up in a barn. [Obs.] Shak. Men . . . often barn up the chaff, and burn up the grain. Fuller. 
A child. [Obs.] See Bairn. 
A form or mode of syllogism of which the first proposition is a universal affirmative, and the other two are particular negative. 
A husband; as, baron and feme, husband and wife. [R.] Cowell. Baron of beef, two sirloins not cut asunder at the backbone. -- Barons of the Cinque Ports, formerly members of the House of Commons, elected by the seven Cinque Ports, two for each port. -- Baron of the exchequer, the judges of the Court of Exchequer, one of the three ancient courts of England, now abolished. 
A kind of cutting weapon with a thick back and thin razorlike edge, used by the Moros of the Philippine Islands. 
In bad taste; grotesque; odd. 
Same as 3d Bark, n. 
A resin, called also galipot. 
The hollow basal part of a feather. Barrel bulk (Com.), a measure equal to five cubic feet, used in estimating capacity, as of a vessel for freight. -- Barrel drain (Arch.), a drain in the form of a cylindrical tube. -- Barrel of a boiler, the cylindrical part of a boiler, containing the flues. -- Barrel of the ear (Anat.), the tympanum, or tympanic cavity. -- Barrel organ, an instrument for producing music by the action of a revolving cylinder. -- Barrel vault. See under Vault. 
To put or to pack in a barrel or barrels. 
Elevated lands or plains on which grow small trees, but not timber; as, pine barrens; oak barrens. They are not necessarily sterile, and are often fertile. [Amer.] J. Pickering. 
A kind of cap formerly worn by soldiers; -- called also barret cap. Also, the flat cap worn by Roman Catholic ecclesiastics. 
In Spain and countries colonized by Spain, a village, ward, or district outside a town or city to whose jurisdiction it belongs. 
A wicker case, in which salt is put to drain. 
A hog, esp. a male hog castrated. Holland. 
A heap of rubbish, attle, etc. 
, Divided into bars; -- said of the field. 
The common perch. See 1st Bass. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To traffic or trade, by exchanging one commodity for another, in distinction from a sale and purchase, in which money is paid for the commodities transferred; to truck. 
To trade or exchange in the way of barter; to exchange (frequently for an unworthy consideration); to traffic; to truck; -- sometimes followed by away; as, to barter away goods or honor. 
One who barters. 
A place of shelter for cattle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
See Bertram. Johnson. 
A passage into a field or yard, closed by bars made to take out of the posts. 
An oxide of barium (or barytum); a heavy earth with a specific gravity above 4. 
Relating to, or forming, the base. Basal cleavage. See under Cleavage. -- Basal plane (Crystallog.), one parallel to the lateral or horizontal axis. 
A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinic feldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle- green particles of olivine frequently disseminated. 
Same as Basil, a sheepskin. 
Not held by honorable service; as, a base estate, one held by services not honorable; held by villenage. Such a tenure is called base, or low, and the tenant, a base tenant. Base fee, formerly, an estate held at the will of the lord; now, a qualified fee. See note under Fee, n., 4. -- Base metal. See under Metal. 
That extremity of a leaf, fruit, etc., at which it is attached to its support. 
To put on a base or basis; to lay the foundation of; to found, as an argument or conclusion; -- used with on or upon. Bacon. 
A board, or other woodwork, carried round the walls of a room and touching the floor, to form a base and protect the plastering; -- also called washboard (in England), mopboard, and scrubboard. 
Wearing, or protected by, bases. [Obs.] "Based in lawny velvet." E. Hall. 
The outer wall of the ground story of a building, or of a part of that story, when treated as a distinct substructure. ( See Base, n., 3 (a).) Hence: The rooms of a ground floor, collectively. Basement membrane (Anat.), a delicate membrane composed of a single layer of flat cells, forming the substratum upon which, in many organs, the epithelioid cells are disposed. 
To abash; to disconcert or be disconcerted or put out of countenance. [Obs.] His countenance was bold and bashed not. Spenser. 
A very large siluroid fish (Leptops olivaris) of the Mississippi valley; -- also called goujon, mud cat, and yellow cat. 
Said of crystalline rocks which contain a relatively low percentage of silica, as basalt. Basic salt (Chem.), a salt formed from a base or hydroxide by the partial replacement of its hydrogen by a negative or acid element or radical. 
To convert into a salifiable base. 
The slope or angle to which the cutting edge of a tool, as a plane, is ground. Grier. 
To grind or form the edge of to an angle. Moxon. 
The name given to several aromatic herbs of the Mint family, but chiefly to the common or sweet basil (Ocymum basilicum), and the bush basil, or lesser basil (O. minimum), the leaves of which are used in cookery. The name is also given to several kinds of mountain mint (Pycnanthemum). Basil thyme, a name given to the fragrant herbs Calamintha Acinos and C. Nepeta. -- Wild basil, a plant (Calamintha clinopodium) of the Mint family. 
The skin of a sheep tanned with bark. 
An isolated or circumscribed formation, particularly where the strata dip inward, on all sides, toward a center; -- especially applied to the coal formations, called coal basins or coal fields. 
The middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen of the skull. 
Prolonged at the base, as certain leaves. 
To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat. Basks in the glare, and stems the tepid wave. Goldsmith. 
To warm by continued exposure to heat; to warm with genial heat. Basks at the fire his hairy strength. Milton. 
The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital. [Improperly so used.] Gwilt. 
To put into a basket. [R.] 
Same as Bascinet. 
A basin. [Obs. or Special form] 
Pertaining to Biscay, its people, or their language. 
Pertaining to the country, people, or language of Biscay; Basque [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
; pl. Bass, and sometimes Basses. Etym: [A corruption of barse.] (Zoöl.) 
The linden or lime tree, sometimes wrongly called whitewood; also, its bark, which is used for making mats. See Bast. 
Deep or grave in tone. Bass clef (Mus.), the character placed at the beginning of the staff containing the bass part of a musical composition. [See Illust. under Clef.] -- Bass voice, a deepsounding voice; a voice fitted for singing bass. 
To sound in a deep tone. [R.] Shak. 
A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have been invented at Venice. Some dress, some dance, some play, not to forget Your piquet parties, and your dear basset. Rowe. 
Inclined upward; as, the basset edge of strata. Lyell. 
The edge of a geological stratum at the surface of the ground; the outcrop. 
To inclined upward so as to appear at the surface; to crop out; as, a vein of coal bassets. 
A hassock. See 2d Bass, 2. 
Enough; stop. Shak. 
To sprinkle flour and salt and drip butter or fat on, as on meat in roasting. 
To sew loosely, or with long stitches; -- usually, that the work may be held in position until sewed more firmly. Shak. 
The ace of clubs in qua Pope. 
See Baton. 
A positive or nonacid constituent of compound, either elementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element. 
Shale or bituminous shale. Kirwan. 
To strike or hit with a bat or a pole; to cudgel; to beat. Holland. 
To use a bat, as in a game of baseball. 
One of the Cheiroptera, an order of flying mammals, in which the wings are formed by a membrane stretched between the elongated fingers, legs, and tail. The common bats are small and insectivorous. See Cheiroptera and Vampire. Bat tick (Zoöl.), a wingless, dipterous insect of the genus Nycteribia, parasitic on bats. 
Strife; contention. [Obs.] Shak. 
To attack; to bait. [Obs.] Spenser. 
of Bite. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To flutter as a hawk; to bait. [Obs.] Bacon. 
See 2d Bath. 
An alkaline solution consisting of the dung of certain animals; -- employed in the preparation of hides; grainer. Knight. 
To steep in bate, as hides, in the manufacture of leather. 
A boat; esp. a flat-bottomed, clumsy boat used on the Canadian lakes and rivers. [Written also, but less properly, batteau.] Bateau bridge, a floating bridge supported by bateaux. 
Reduced; lowered; restrained; as, to speak with bated breath. Macaulay. 
Rich; fertile. [Obs.] "Batful valleys." Drayton. 
A medium, as heated sand, ashes, steam, hot air, through which heat is applied to a body. 
A Hebrew measure containing the tenth of a homer, or five gallons and three pints, as a measure for liquids; and two pecks and five quarts, as a dry measure. 
A city in the west of England, resorted to for its hot springs, which has given its name to various objects. Bath brick, a preparation of calcareous earth, in the form of a brick, used for cleaning knives, polished metal, etc. -- Bath chair, a kind of chair on wheels, as used by invalids at Bath. "People walked out, or drove out, or were pushed out in their Bath chairs." Dickens. -- Bath metal, an alloy consisting of four and a half ounces of zinc and one pound of copper. -- Bath note, a folded writing paper, 8 1/2 by 14 inches. -- Bath stone, a species of limestone (oölite) found near Bath, used for building. 
The immersion of the body in water; as to take one's usual bathe. Edin. Rev. 
One who bathes. 
A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing or speech; anticlimax. 
With the exception of; excepting. We have little reason to think that they bring many ideas with them, bating some faint ideas of hunger and thirst. Locke. 
A short bat for beating clothes in washing them; -- called also batler, batling staff, batting staff. Shak. 
A weight used in the East, varying according to the locality; in Turkey, the greater batman is about 157 pounds, the lesser only a fourth of this; at Aleppo and Smyrna, the batman is 17 pounds. Simmonds. 
A man who has charge of a bathorse and his load. Macaulay. 
An ordinary with its ends cut off, borne sinister as a mark of bastardy, and containing one fourth in breadth of the bend sinister; -- called also bastard bar. See Bend sinister. 
See Baton, and Baston. 
Extra pay; esp. an extra allowance to an English officer serving in India. Whitworth. 
Rate of exchange; also, the discount on uncurrent coins. [India] 
A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel, under Wager. 
Provisions ordered from the buttery; also, the charges for them; -- only in the pl., except when used adjectively. [Univ. of Oxford, Eng.] 
To be supplied with provisions from the buttery. [Univ. of Oxford, Eng.] 
To make fertile. [Obs.] "To battel barren land." Ray. 
Fertile; fruitful; productive. [Obs.] A battel soil for grain, for pasture good. Fairfax. 
To grow fat; to grow fat in ease and luxury; to glut one's self. Dryden. The pampered monarch lay battening in ease. Garth. Skeptics, with a taste for carrion, who batten on the hideous facts in history, -- persecutions, inquisitions. Emerson. 
A strip of sawed stuff, or a scantling; as, (a) pl. (Com. & Arch.) Sawed timbers about 7 by 2 1/2 inches and not less than 6 feet long. Brande & C. (b) (Naut.) A strip of wood used in fastening the edges of a tarpaulin to the deck, also around masts to prevent chafing. (c) A long, thin strip used to strengthen a part, to cover a crack, etc. Batten door (Arch.), a door made of boards of the whole length of the door, secured by battens nailed crosswise. 
To furnish or fasten with battens. To batten down, to fasten down with battens, as the tarpaulin over the hatches of a ship during a storm. 
The movable bar of a loom, which strikes home or closes the threads of a woof. 
To flatten (metal) by hammering, so as to compress it inwardly and spread it outwardly. 
A bruise on the face of a plate or of type in the form. 
A backward slope in the face of a wall or of a bank; receding slope. Batter rule, an instrument consisting of a rule or frame, and a plumb line, by which the batter or slope of a wall is regulated in building. 
To slope gently backward. 
One who wields a bat; a batsman. 
Fertile. See Battel, a. [Obs.] 
To join in battle; to contend in fight; as, to battle over theories. To meet in arms, and battle in the plain. Prior. 
To assail in battle; to fight. 
See Batten, and Baton. 
An elevated river bed or sea bed. 
Belonging to, or resembling, a bat. "Batty wings." Shak. 
A springboard in a circus or gymnasium; -- called also batule board. 
A small copper coin, with a mixture of silver, formerly current in some parts of Germany and Switzerland. It was worth about four cents. 
Same as Bawbee. 
, a. See Bawbling. [Obs.] 
Designating or conforming to either of the scales used by the French chemist Antoine Baumé in the graduation of his hydrometers; of or relating to Baumé's scales or hydrometers. There are two Baumé hydrometers. One, which is used with liquids heavier than water, sinks to 0º in pure water, and to 15º in a 15 per cent salt solution; the other, for liquids lighter than water, sinks to 0º in a 10 per cent salt solution and to 10º in pure water. In both cases the graduation, based on the distance between these fundamental points, is continued along the stem as far as desired. Since all the degrees on a Baumé scale are thus equal in length, while those on a specific- gravity scale grow smaller as the density increases, there is no simple relation between degrees Bé. and Sp. gr. However, readings on Baumés scale may be approximately reduced to specific gravities by the following formulæ (x in each case being the reading on Baumé's scale) : (a) for liquids heavier than water, sp. gr. = 144 ÷ (144 - x); (b) for liquids lighter than water, sp. gr. = 144 ÷ (134 + x). 
A baboon. 
A halfpenny. [Spelt also baubee.] [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 
A trinket. See Bauble. 
A person who keeps a house of prostitution, or procures women for a lewd purpose; a procurer or procuress; a lewd person; -- usually applied to a woman. 
To procure women for lewd purposes. 
A house of prostitution; a house of ill fame; a brothel. 
To proclaim with a loud voice, or by outcry, as a hawker or town-crier does. Swift. 
A loud, prolonged cry; an outcry. 
One who bawls. 
A kind of hawk. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
A baker; originally, a female baker. [Old Eng. & Scotch] 
Reddish brown; of the color of a chestnut; -- applied to the color of horses. Bay cat (Zoöl.), a wild cat of Africa and the East Indies (Felis aurata). -- Bay lynx (Zoöl.), the common American lynx (Felis, or Lynx, rufa). 
An inlet of the sea, usually smaller than a gulf, but of the same general character. 
To bark, as a dog with a deep voice does, at his game. The hounds at nearer distance hoarsely bayed. Dryden. 
To bark at; hence, to follow with barking; to bring or drive to bay; as, to bay the bear. Shak. 
A state of being obliged to face an antagonist or a difficulty, when escape has become impossible. Embolden'd by despair, he stood at bay. Dryden. The most terrible evils are just kept at bay by incessant efforts. I. Taylor 
To bathe. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A bank or dam to keep back water. 
To dam, as water; -- with up or back. 
The East Indian weaver bird (Ploceus Philippinus). 
A violent thunder squall occurring on the south coast of Cuba, esp. near Bayamo. The gusts, called bayamo winds, are modified foehn winds. 
Properly, a bay horse, but often any horse. Commonly in the phrase blind bayard, an old blind horse. Blind bayard moves the mill. Philips. 
Having a bay or bays. "The large bayed barn." Drayton. 
In the United States navy, a sick-bay nurse; -- now officially designated as hospital apprentice. 
An inlet from the Gulf of Mexico, from a lake, or from a large river, sometimes sluggish, sometimes without perceptible movement except from tide and wind. [Southern U. S.] A dark slender thread of a bayou moves loiteringly northeastward into a swamp of huge cypresses. G. W. Cable. 
To run or drive (as a vessel or a boat) upon a beach; to strand; as, to beach a ship. 
Having a beach or beaches; formed by a beach or beaches; shingly. The beachy girdle of the ocean. Shak. 
Money paid for the maintenance of a beacon; also, beacons, collectively. 
To ornament with beads or beading. 
To form beadlike bubbles. 
Office or jurisdiction of a beadle. 
1. (Zoöl.) (a) The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a horny sheath, covering the jaws. The form varied much according to the food and habits of the bird, and is largely used in the classification of birds. (b) A similar bill in other animals, as the turtles. (c) The long projecting sucking mouth of some insects, and other invertebrates, as in the Hemiptera. (d) The upper or projecting part of the shell, near the hinge of a bivalve. (e) The prolongation of certain univalve shells containing the canal. 
Furnished with a process or a mouth like a beak; rostrate. Beaked whale (Zoöl.), a cetacean of the genus Hyperoodon; the bottlehead whale. 
An ornament used in rich Norman doorways, resembling a head with a beak. Parker. 
A small inflammatory tumor; a pustule. [Prov. Eng.] 
To gather matter; to swell and come to a head, as a pimple. [Prov. Eng.] 
A heavy iron lever having an oscillating motion on a central axis, one end of which is connected with the piston rod from which it receives motion, and the other with the crank of the wheel shaft; -- called also working beam or walking beam. 
To send forth; to emit; -- followed ordinarily by forth; as, to beam forth light. 
To emit beams of light. He beamed, the daystar of the rising age. Trumbull. 
Furnished with beams, as the head of a stag. Tost his beamed frontlet to the sky. Sir W. Scott. 
A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chiefly of the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs. 
A bier. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Any species of the genus Ursus, and of the closely allied genera. Bears are plantigrade Carnivora, but they live largely on fruit and insects. 
To endeavor to depress the price of, or prices in; as, to bear a railroad stock; to bear the market. 
Long or stiff hairs on a plant; the awn; as, the beard of grain. 
Having a beard. "Bearded fellow." Shak. "Bearded grain." Dryden. Bearded vulture, Bearded eagle. (Zoöl.) See Lammergeir. -- Bearded tortoise. (Zoöl.) See Matamata. 
One who holds a check, note, draft, or other order for the payment of money; as, pay to bearer. 
See Bairn. [Obs.] 
State or nature of a beast. 
To give the signal for, by beat of drum; to sound by beat of drum; as, to beat an alarm, a charge, a parley, a retreat; to beat the general, the reveille, the tattoo. See Alarm, Charge, Parley, etc. To beat down, to haggle with (any one) to secure a lower price; to force down. [Colloq.] -- To beat into, to teach or instill, by repetition. -- To beat off, to repel or drive back. -- To beat out, to extend by hammering. -- To beat out of a thing, to cause to relinquish it, or give it up. "Nor can anything beat their posterity out of it to this day." South. -- To beat the dust. (Man.) (a) To take in too little ground with the fore legs, as a horse. (b) To perform curvets too precipitately or too low. -- To beat the hoof, to walk; to go on foot. -- To beat the wing, to flutter; to move with fluttering agitation. -- To beat time, to measure or regulate time in music by the motion of the hand or foot. -- To beat up, to attack suddenly; to alarm or disturb; as, to beat up an enemy's quarters. 
To make progress against the wind, by sailing in a zigzag line or traverse. 
A sudden swelling or reënforcement of a sound, recurring at regular intervals, and produced by the interference of sound waves of slightly different periods of vibrations; applied also, by analogy, to other kinds of wave motions; the pulsation or throbbing produced by the vibrating together of two tones not quite in unison. See Beat, v. i., 8. 
Weary; tired; fatigued; exhausted. [Colloq.] Quite beat, and very much vexed and disappointed. Dickens. 
To bathe; also, to dry or heat, as unseasoned wood. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A small flat curl worn on the temple by women. [Humorous] 
pl. of Beau. 
An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor. 
That piece of armor which protected the lower part of the face, whether forming a part of the helmet or fixed to the breastplate. It was so constructed (with joints or otherwise) that the wearer could raise or lower it to eat and drink. 
To blot; to stain. Chaucer. 
A tremolo effect, such as that produced on the piano by vibratory repetition of a note with sustained use of the pedal. 
of Become. 
A South American bird of the flycatcher family. (Tityra inquisetor). 
Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough. Thomas. -- n. 
See Beak. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A small brook. The brooks, the becks, the rills. Drayton. 
A vat. See Back. 
To nod, or make a sign with the head or hand. [Archaic] Drayton. 
To notify or call by a nod, or a motion of the head or hand; to intimate a command to. [Archaic] When gold and silver becks me to come on. Shak. 
A significant nod, or motion of the head or hand, esp. as a call or command. They have troops of soldiers at their beck. Shak. 
A European fish (Pagellus centrodontus); the sea bream or braise. 
A small grommet, or a ring or loop of rope 
To make a significant sign to; hence, to summon, as by a motion of the hand. His distant friends, he beckons near. Dryden. It beckons you to go away with it. Shak. 
A sign made without words; a beck. "At the first beckon." Bolingbroke. 
To catch; to grasp; to insnare. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To embrace; to surround. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To suit or be suitable to; to be congruous with; to befit; to accord with, in character or circumstances; to be worthy of, or proper for; to cause to appear well; -- said of persons and things. It becomes me so to speak of so excellent a poet. Dryden. I have known persons so anxious to have their dress become them, as to convert it, at length, into their proper self, and thus actually to become the dress. Coleridge. 
A fish of the Mediterranean (Sphyræna spet). See Barracuda. 
To curl; to adorn with curls. 
A layer or seam, or a horizontal stratum between layers; as, a bed of coal, iron, etc. 
To dress or prepare the surface of stone) so as to serve as a bed. 
To go to bed; to cohabit. If he be married, and bed with his wife. Wiseman. 
To make a daff or fool of. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To wet by dashing or throwing water or other liquid upon; to bespatter. "Trees bedashed with rain." Shak. 
To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty. Bedaub foul designs with a fair varnish. Barrow. 
A wingless, bloodsucking, hemipterous insect (Cimex Lectularius), sometimes infesting houses and especially beds. See Illustration in Appendix. 
Provided with a bed; as, double-bedded room; placed or arranged in a bed or beds. 
To pray; also, to offer; to proffer. [Obs.] R. of Gloucester. Chaucer. 
A kind of pickax. 
To deck, ornament, or adorn; to grace. Bedecked with boughs, flowers, and garlands. Pennant. 
The Abyssinian or Arabian ibex (Capra Nubiana). It is probably the wild goat of the Bible. 
To moisten with dew, or as with dew. "Falling tears his face bedew." Dryden. 
Moist with dew; dewy. [Obs.] Night with her bedewy wings. A. Brewer. 
To make dim; to obscure or darken. Shak. 
An instrument for tightening the parts of a bedstead. 
Belonging to, or fit for, a madhouse. "The bedlam, brainsick duchess." Shak. 
To cause to dote; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Bedfere. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To sprinkle, as with drops. The yellow carp, in scales bedropped with gold. Pope. 
To drug abundantly or excessively. 
To duck; to put the head under water; to immerse. "Deep himself beducked." Spenser. 
See Bedouin. 
To cover with dung, as for manuring; to bedaub or defile, literally or figuratively. Bp. Hall. 
To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust. Sherwood. 
To dye or stain. Briton fields with Sarazin blood bedyed. Spenser. 
p. p. of Be; -- used for been. [Obs.] Spenser. 
An insect of the order Hymenoptera, and family Apidæ (the honeybees), or family Andrenidæ (the solitary bees.) See Honeybee. 
A tree of the genus Fagus. 
Of or relating to beeches. 
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, beef. Beef tea, essence of beef, or strong beef broth. 
Having much beef; of the nature of beef; resembling beef; fleshy. 
Same as Beild. Fairfax. 
A trumpet. [Obs.] 
The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr. tense plural of Be. See 1st Bee. Assembled been a senate grave and stout. Fairfax. 
Sour beer. [Obs.] 
Of or resembling beer; affected by beer; maudlin. 
A biennial plant of the genus Beta, which produces an edible root the first year and seed the second year. 
Any insect of the order Coleoptera, having four wings, the outer pair being stiff cases for covering the others when they are folded up. See Coleoptera. Beetle mite (Zoöl.), one of many species of mites, of the family Oribatidæ, parasitic on beetles. -- Black beetle, the common large black cockroach (Blatta orientalis). 
To extend over and beyond the base or support; to overhang; to jut. To the dreadful summit of the cliff That beetles o'er his base into the sea. Shak. Each beetling rampart, and each tower sublime. Wordsworth. 
A beef; a beef creature. They would knock down the first beeve they met with. W. Irving. 
; plural of Beef, the animal. 
To happen to. I beseech your grace that I may know The worst that may befall me. Shak. 
To come to pass; to happen. I have revealed . . . the discord which befell. Milton. 
To be suitable to; to suit; to become. That name best befits thee. Milton. 
In comfortable circumstances as regards property; forehanded. Rich and much beforehand. Bacon. 
To act as a friend to; to favor; to aid, benefit, or countenance. By the darkness befriended. Longfellow. 
A title of honor in Turkey and in some other parts of the East; a bey. 
To ask to be appointed guardian for, or to ask to have a guardian appointed for. Else some will beg thee, in the court of wards. Harrington. Hence: To beg (one) for a fool, to take him for a fool. I beg to, is an elliptical expression for I beg leave to; as, I beg to inform you. -- To bag the question, to assume that which was to be proved in a discussion, instead of adducing the proof or sustaining the point by argument. -- To go a-begging, a figurative phrase to express the absence of demand for something which elsewhere brings a price; as, grapes are so plentiful there that they go a-begging. 
To ask alms or charity, especially to ask habitually by the wayside or from house to house; to live by asking alms. I can not dig; to beg I am ashamed. Luke xvi. 3. 
See Bigha. 
To adorn with gems, or as with gems. Begemmed with dewdrops. Sir W. Scott. Those lonely realms bright garden isles begem. Shelley. 
One who begets; a father. 
The condition of being a beggar; also, the class of beggars. 
To gild. B. Jonson. 
Beginning. [Poetic & Obs.] Spenser. 
To surround as with a girdle. 
To encompass; to begird. Milton. 
To gnaw; to eat away; to corrode. The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul. Shak. 
To exalt to the dignity of a god; to deify. [Obs.] "Begodded saints." South. 
A unit of resistance equal to one billion ohms, or one thousand megohms. 
Go away; depart; get you gone. 
Surrounded; furnished; beset; environed (as in woe-begone). [Obs.] Gower. Chaucer. 
To besmear with gore. 
imp. & p. p. of Beget. 
See Beghard. 
In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank. Malcom. 
of Begin. 
Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support; defense; vindication. In behalf of his mistress's beauty. Sir P. Sidney. Against whom he had contracted some prejudice in behalf of his nation. Clarendon. In behalf of, in the interest of. -- On behalf of, on account of; on the part of. 
To act; to conduct; to bear or carry one's self; as, to behave well or ill. 
To sever the head from; to take off the head of. 
imp. & p. p. of Behold. 
To vow. [Obs.] Paston. 
See Behight. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The backside; the rump. [Low] 
To have in sight; to see clearly; to look at; to regard with the eyes. When he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. Num. xxi. 9. Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. John. i. 29. 
To direct the eyes to, or fix them upon, an object; to look; to see. And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne, . . . a lamb as it had been slain. Rev. v. 6. 
Advantage; profit; benefit; interest; use. No mean recompense it brings To your behoof. Milton. 
, and derivatives. See Behoove, & c. 
To howl at. [Obs.] The wolf behowls the moon. Shak. 
Debeige. 
A place of shelter; protection; refuge. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] [Also written bield and beeld.] The random beild o' clod or stane. Burns. 
Existing. 
Since; inasmuch as. [Obs. or Colloq.] And being you have Declined his means, you have increased his malice. Beau. & Fl. 
To jade or tire. [Obs.] Milton. 
To jape; to laugh at; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any climbing woody vine of the tropics with the habit of a liane; in the Philippines, esp. any of various species of Calamus, the cane or rattan palm. 
Half a shekel. 
To confess; to acknowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The Babylonian name of the god known among the Hebrews as Baal. See Baal. Baruch vi. 41. 
To beat or bang. [Prov. & Low, Eng.] Todd. 
Good friend; dear friend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To retard or make too late. Davenant. 
To laud or praise greatly. 
To make fast, as a rope, by taking several turns with it round a pin, cleat, or kevel. Totten. 
One who, or that which, belches. 
To place under the lee, or unfavorably to the wind. Shak. 
A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack and defense. 
Belonging to Belgravia (a fashionable quarter of London, around Pimlico), or to fashionable life; aristocratic. 
An evil spirit; a wicked and unprincipled person; the personification of evil. What concord hath Christ with Belia 2 Cor. vi. 15. A son (or man) of Belial, a worthless, wicked, or thoroughly depraved person. 1 Sam. ii. 12. 
A persuasion of the truths of religion; faith. No man can attain [to] belief by the bare contemplation of heaven and earth. Hooker. 
It is likely or probably; perhaps. [Obs. or Archaic] -- Be*like"ly, adv. Belike, boy, then you are in love. Shak. 
To besmear or insnare with birdlime. 
Forthwith; speedily; quickly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To vomit. [Obs.] 
That part of the capital of a column included between the abacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearly cylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital. 
To put a bell upon; as, to bell the cat. 
To develop bells or corollas; to take the form of a bell; to blossom; as, hops bell. 
To utter by bellowing. [Obs.] 
To call or bellow, as the deer in rutting time; to make a bellowing sound; to roar. As loud as belleth wind in hell. Chaucer. The wild buck bells from ferny brake. Sir W. Scott. 
A young lady of superior beauty and attractions; a handsome lady, or one who attracts notice in society; a fair lady. 
Hung with a bell or bells. 
Lead colic. 
To emit with a loud voice; to shout; -- used with out. "Would bellow out a laugh." Dryden. 
A loud resounding outcry or noise, as of an enraged bull; a roar. 
The hollow part of a curved or bent timber, the convex part of which is the back. Belly doublet, a doublet of the 16th century, hanging down so as to cover the belly. Shak. -- Belly fretting, the chafing of a horse's belly with a girth. Johnson. -- Belly timber, food. [Ludicrous] Prior. -- Belly worm, a worm that breeds or lives in the belly (stomach or intestines). Johnson. 
To cause to swell out; to fill. [R.] Your breath of full consent bellied his sails. Shak. 
To swell and become protuberant, like the belly; to bulge. The bellying canvas strutted with the gale. Dryden. 
To lock, or fasten as with a lock. [Obs.] Shak. 
To be deserved by. [Obs.] More evils belong us than happen to us. B. Jonson. 
To love. [Obs.] Wodroephe. 
To treat as a lout; to talk abusively to. [Obs.] Camden. 
Same as Band, n., 2. A very broad band is more properly termed a belt. 
To encircle with, or as with, a belt; to encompass; to surround. A coarse black robe belted round the waist. C. Reade. They belt him round with hearts undaunted. Wordsworth. 
See Beltane. 
A cetacean allied to the dolphins. 
To bespatter, as with mud. [R.] Sterne. 
A platform from which speakers addressed an assembly. Mitford. 
To make mad. [Obs.] Fuller. 
To mask; to conceal. 
To maul or beat severely; to bruise. "In order to bemaul Yorick." Sterne. 
To bewilder. Intellects bemazed in endless doubt. Cowper. 
To make mean; to lower. C. Reade. 
To meet. [Obs.] Our very loving sister, well bemet. Shak. 
To mete. [Obs.] Shak. 
To drag through, encumber with, or fix in, the mire; to soil by passing through mud or dirt. Bemired and benighted in the dog. Burke. 
To envelop in mist. [Obs.] 
To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; to lament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with. Implores their pity, and his pain bemoans. Dryden. 
To mock; to ridicule. Bemock the modest moon. Shak. 
To soil or encumber with mire and dirt. [Obs.] Shak. 
The sign [Obs.] 
To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor. A parson much bemused in beer. Pope. 
Within; in; in or into the interior; toward the inner apartment. [Scot.] 
The inner or principal room in a hut or house of two rooms; -- opposed to but, the outer apartment. [Scot.] 
An old form of the pl. indic. pr. of Be. [Obs.] 
To promise; to name. [Obs.] 
To sit on a seat of justice. [R.] Shak. 
To fasten, as one rope to another, or as a sail to its yard or stay; or as a cable to the ring of an anchor. Totten. To bend the brow, to knit the brow, as in deep thought or in anger; to scowl; to frown. Camden. 
A knot by which one rope is fastened to another or to an anchor, spar, or post. Totten. 
One of the honorable ordinaries, containing a third or a fifth part of the field. It crosses the field diagonally from the dexter chief to the sinister base. Bend sinister (Her.), an honorable ordinary drawn from the sinister chief to the dexter base. 
The marking of the clothes with stripes or horizontal bands. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Divided into an even number of bends; -- said of a shield or its charge. Cussans. 
See Benne. 
A prayer; boon. [Archaic] What is good for a bootless bene Wordsworth. 
To deprive (of), or take away (from). [Obs.] 
To catch in a net; to insnare. Shak. 
The language spoken in Bengal. 
Benignant quality; kindliness. 
To take away. [Obs.] Ire . . . benimeth the man fro God. Chaucer. 
The name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum), originally Asiatic; -- also called oil plant. From their seeds an oil is expressed, called benne oil, used mostly for making soap. In the southern United States the seeds are used in candy. 
The common yellow-flowered avens of Europe (Geum urbanum); herb bennet. The name is sometimes given to other plants, as the hemlock, valerian, etc. 
imp. & p. p. of Bend. 
A transverse frame of a framed structure. 
A grass of the genus Agrostis, esp. Agrostis vulgaris, or redtop. The name is also used of many other grasses, esp. in America. 
To make torpid; to deprive of sensation or sensibility; to stupefy; as, a hand or foot benumbed by cold. The creeping death benumbed her senses first. Dryden. 
A transparent crystalline substance, 
A compound radical, C6H5.CH2, related to toluene and benzoic acid; -- commonly used adjectively. 
To pelt roundly. 
To rain upon; to wet with rain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To rate or chide vehemently; to scold. Holland. Motley. 
TO make foul; to soil; to defile. [Obs.] Milton. 
An African genet (Genetta pardina). See Genet. 
A member of a race somewhat resembling the Arabs, but often classed as Hamitic, who were formerly the inhabitants of the whole of North Africa from the Mediterranean southward into the Sahara, and who still occupy a large part of that region; -- called also Kabyles. Also, the language spoken by this people. 
, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OIcel. berja to strike.] To pierce. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
,n.See Bear, barley. [Scot.] 
of Bereave. 
A large mass or hill, as of ice. Glittering bergs of ice. Tennyson . 
A hill. [Obs.] 
To berhyme. 
A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and the ditch. 
To rob; to plunder. [Obs.] 
A small, oval, transparent jellyfish, belonging to the Ctenophora. 
A small fruit that is pulpy or succulent throughout, having seeds loosely imbedded in the pulp, as the currant, grape, blueberry. 
To bear or produce berries. 
A mound; a hillock. W. Browne. 
A kind of collar or cape worn by ladies. 
A mineral of great hardness, and, when transparent, of much beauty. It occurs in hexagonal prisms, commonly of a green or bluish green color, but also yellow, pink, and white. It is a silicate of aluminium and glucinum (beryllium). The aquamarine is a transparent, sea-green variety used as a gem. The emerald is another variety highly prized in jewelry, and distinguished by its deep color, which is probably due to the presence of a little oxide of chromium. 
See Bezant. 
To see; to look; to mind. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To beseech. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Literally: To appear or seem (well, ill, best, etc.) for (one) to do or to have. Hence: To be fit, suitable, or proper for, or worthy of; to become; to befit. A duty well beseeming the preachers. Clarendon. What form of speech or behavior beseemeth us, in our prayers to God Hocker. 
To seem; to appear; to be fitting. [Obs.] "As beseemed best." Spenser. 
The act of besetting, or the state of being beset; also, that which besets one, as a sin. "Fearing a besetment." Kane. 
A large food fish (Anoplopoma fimbria) of the north Pacific coast; -- called also candlefish. 
To shut up or out. [Obs.] 
Over and above; separate or distinct from; in addition to; other than; else than. See Beside, prep., 3, and Syn. under Beside. Besides your cheer, you shall have sport. Shak. 
To suit; to fit; to become. [Obs.] 
To blacken with smut; to foul with soot. 
To befoul with snuff. Young. 
A brush of twigs for sweeping; a broom; anything which sweeps away or destroys. [Archaic or Fig.] I will sweep it with the besom of destruction. Isa. xiv. 23. The housemaid with her besom. W. Irving. 
To sweep, as with a besom. [Archaic or Poetic] Cowper. Rolls back all Greece, and besoms wide the plain. Barlow. 
To assort or be congruous with; to fit, or become. [Obs.] Such men as may besort your age. Shak. 
Befitting associates or attendants. [Obs.] With such accommodation and besort As levels with her breeding. Shak. 
To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; to infatuate. Fools besotted with their crimes. Hudibras. 
To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on. 
To daub or soil with spittle. Johnson. 
To mark with spots, or as with spots. 
Utmost; highest endeavor or state; most nearly perfect thing, or being, or action; as, to do one's best; to the best of our ability. At best, in the utmost degree or extent applicable to the case; under the most favorable circumstances; as, life is at best very short. -- For best, finally. [Obs.] "Those constitutions . . . are now established for best, and not to be mended." Milton. -- To get the best of, to gain an advantage over, whether fairly or unfairly. -- To make the best of. (a) To improve to the utmost; to use or dispose of to the greatest advantage. "Let there be freedom to carry their commodities where they can make the best of them." Bacon. (b) To reduce to the least possible inconvenience; as, to make the best of ill fortune or a bad bargain. 
To get the better of. [Colloq.] 
Beset; put in peril. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To sprinkle with, or as with, stars; to decorate with, or as with, stars; to bestud. "Bestarred with anemones." W. Black. 
To put into brisk or vigorous action; to move with life and vigor; -- usually with the reciprocal pronoun. You have so bestirred your valor. Shak. Rouse and bestir themselves ere well awake. Milton. 
The act of bestowing; disposal. 
To set or adorn, as with studs or bosses; to set thickly; to stud; as, to bestud with stars. Milton. 
That which is laid, staked, or pledged, as between two parties, upon the event of a contest or any contingent issue; the act of giving such a pledge; a wager. "Having made his bets." Goldsmith. 
To stake or pledge upon the event of a contingent issue; to wager. John a Gaunt loved him well, and betted much money on his head. Shak. I'll bet you two to one I'll make him do it. O. W. Holmes. 
imp. & p. p. of Beat. [Obs.] 
An early form of Better. [Obs.] To go bet, to go fast; to hurry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The second letter of the Greek alphabet, B, b. See B, and cf. etymology of Alphabet. Beta (B, b) is used variously for classifying, as: (a) (Astron.) To designate some bright star, usually the second brightest, of a constellation, as, b Aurigæ. (b) (Chem.) To distinguish one of two or more isomers; also, to indicate the position of substituting atoms or groups in certain compounds; as, b-naphthol. With acids, it commonly indicates that the substituent is in union with the carbon atom next to that to which the carboxyl group is attached. 
Penetrating rays readily deflected by a magnetic or electric field, emitted by radioactive substances, as radium. They consist of negatively charged particles or electrons, apparently the same in kind as those of the cathode rays, but having much higher velocities (about 35,000 to 180,000 miles per second). 
To better; to mend. See Beete. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A species of pepper (Piper betle), the leaves of which are chewed, with the areca or betel nut and a little shell lime, by the inhabitants of the East Indies. I is a woody climber with ovate manynerved leaves. 
To call to mind; to recall or bring to recollection, reflection, or consideration; to think; to consider; -- generally followed by a reflexive pronoun, often with of or that before the subject of thought. I have bethought me of another fault. Shak. The rest . . . may . . . bethink themselves, and recover. Milton. We bethink a means to break it off. Shak. 
To happen to; to befall; to come to ; as, woe betide the wanderer. What will betide the few Milton. 
To come to pass; to happen; to occur. A salve for any sore that may betide. Shak. 
The French name for concrete; hence, concrete made after the French fashion. 
A plant of the genus Betonica (Linn.). 
of Betake. 
Torn in pieces; tattered. 
To put in violent motion; to agitate; to disturb; to toss. "My betossed soul." Shak. 
The act or the result of betraying. 
To set in order; to adorn; to deck, to embellish; to trim. Shak. 
A small brass Venetian coin. [Obs.] 
To become better; to improve. Carlyle. 
One who bets or lays a wager. 
One who bets; a better. Addison. 
A short bar used by thieves to wrench doors open. [Written also bettee.] The powerful betty, or the artful picklock. Arbuthnot. 
A beurré (or buttery) pear, one with the meas, Beurré d'Anjou; Beurré Clairgeau. 
To cut to a bevel angle; to slope the edge or surface of. 
To deviate or incline from an angle of 90 Their houses are very ill built, the walls bevel. Swift. 
A light repast between meals; a lunch. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
To take a light repast between meals. [Obs.] 
A chief broken or opening like a carpenter's bevel. Encyc. Brit. 
To express deep sorrow for, as by wailing; to lament; to wail over. Hath widowed and unchilded many a one, Which to this hour bewail the injury. Shak. 
To express grief; to lament. Shak. 
To keep watch over; to keep awake. [Obs.] Gower. 
To avoid; to take care of; to have a care for. [Obs.] "Priest, beware your beard." Shak. To wish them beware the son. Milton. 
To drench or souse with water. "Let the maids bewash the men." Herrick. 
To weep over; to deplore; to bedew with tears. "His timeless death beweeping." Drayton. 
To weep. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To wet or moisten. Gay. 
To cover (the head) with a wig. Hawthorne. 
A double slip of leather by which bells are fastened to a hawk's legs. 
To wrap up; to cover. Fairfax. 
To soil. See Beray. 
To expose; to reveal; to disclose; to betray. [Obs. or Archaic] The murder being once done, he is in less fear, and in more hope that the deed shall not be bewrayed or known. Robynson (More's Utopia. ) Thy speech bewrayeth thee. Matt. xxvi. 73. 
A governor of a province or district in the Turkish dominions; also, in some places, a prince or nobleman; a beg; as, the bey of Tunis. 
The territory ruled by a bey. 
Further away; at a distance; yonder. Lo, where beyond he lyeth languishing. Spenser. 
A circle in or, i. e., gold, representing the gold coin called bezant. Burke. 
The rim which encompasses and fastens a jewel or other object, as the crystal of a watch, in the cavity in which it is set. 
A calculous concretion found in the intestines of certain ruminant animals (as the wild goat, the gazelle, and the Peruvian llama) formerly regarded as an unfailing antidote for poison, and a certain remedy for eruptive, pestilential, or putrid diseases. Hence: Any antidote or panacea. 
To plunder; to waste in riot. [Obs.] 
To drink to excess; to revel. [Obs.] 
An astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves and seed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica), and chewed or smoked in the East as a means of intoxication. See Hasheesh. 
Having two hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by negative atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of bases. See Diacid. 
In a slanting manner; crosswise; obliquely; diagonally; as, to cut cloth bias. 
To incline to one side; to give a particular direction to; to influence; to prejudice; to prepossess. Me it had not biased in the one direction, nor should it have biased any just critic in the counter direction. De. Quincey. 
An arctic fish (Gadus luscus), allied to the cod; -- called also pout and whiting pout. 
To drink; to sip; to tipple. He was constantly bibbing. Locke. 
A bibcock. See Bib, n., 3. 
One given to drinking alcoholic beverages too freely; a tippler; -- chiefly used in composition; as, winebibber. 
Pieces of timber bolted to certain parts of a mast tp support the trestletrees. 
A book with an authoritative exposition of some topic, respected by many experts on the field. Bible Society, an association for securing the multiplication and wide distribution of the Bible. -- Douay Bible. See Douay Bible. -- Geneva Bible. See under Geneva. 
A great drinker; a tippler. [Written also bibbler and bibbeler.] 
A muscle having two heads or origins; -- applied particularly to a flexor in the arm, and to another in the thigh. 
A remarkable ganoid fish (Polypterus bichir) found in the Nile and other African rivers. See Brachioganoidei. 
See Jigger. 
A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub. [Prov. Eng.] 
One who bickers. 
imp. & p. p. of Bid. 
An offer of a price, especially at auctions; a statement of a sum which one will give for something to be received, or will take for something to be done or furnished; that which is offered. 
An invitation of friends to drink ale at some poor man's house, and there to contribute in charity for his relief. [Prov. Eng.] 
of Bid. 
One who bids or offers a price. Burke. 
A name used in calling a hen or chicken. Shak. 
An Irish serving woman or girl. [Colloq.] 
An instrument or weapon with two prongs. 
Having two fingers or fingerlike projections. 
Residence; habitation. Rowe. 
A shelter. Same as Beild. [Scot.] 
To shelter. [Scot.] 
See Andromede. 
A count of forty threads in the warp or chain of woolen cloth. Knight. 
Cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening with a cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins. 
Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc. Shak. 
Having two forms, bodies, or shapes. Croxall. 
Before. [Obs.] 
Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind. "Bear interchanges in local use, now with barley, now with bigg." New English Dict. 
A two-horse chariot. 
A bigamist. [Obs.] 
The offense of marrying one person when already legally married to another. Wharton. 
A fish of the genus Priacanthus, remarkable for the large size of the eye. 
See Big, n. & v. 
To make or become big; to enlarge. [Obs. or Dial.] Steele. 
, compar. of Big. 
A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head. An old woman's biggin for a nightcap. Massinger. 
A coffeepot with a strainer or perforated metallic vessel for holding the ground coffee, through which boiling water is poured; -- so called from Mr. Biggin, the inventor. 
A measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre to an acre. 
A bend in a coast forming an open bay; as, the Bight of Benin. 
In a tumid, swelling, blustering manner; haughtily; violently. He brawleth bigly. Robynson (More's Utopia. ) 
Bigoted. [Obs.] In a country more bigot than ours. Dryden. 
A person of consequence; as, the bigwigs of society. [Jocose] In our youth we have heard him spoken of by the bigwigs with extreme condescension. Dickens. 
A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and of elegant workmanship. 
A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
The East Indian name of a virulent poison extracted from Aconitum ferox or other species of aconite: also, the plant itself. 
A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay of Manila. 
A byland. [Obs.] Holland. 
A long bar or bolt of iron with sliding shackles, and a lock at the end, to confine the feet of prisoners or offenders, esp. on board of ships. Methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Shak. 
A yellow, or greenish, viscid fluid, usually alkaline in reaction, secreted by the liver. It passes into the intestines, where it aids in the digestive process. Its characteristic constituents are the bile salts, and coloring matters. 
A boil. [Obs. or Archaic] 
That part of a ship's hull or bottom which is broadest and most nearly flat, and on which she would rest if aground. 
To suffer a fracture in the bilge; to spring a leak by a fracture in the bilge. 
To fracture the bilge of, or stave in the bottom of (a ship or other vessel). 
Having the smell of bilge water. 
A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtained from bile by the action of alcohol and ether. It is composed of a mixture of the sodium salts of the bile acids. 
To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, by nonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slip to; as, to bilk a creditor. Thackeray. 
A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal. Milton. 
The bell, or boom, of the bittern The bittern's hollow bill was heard. Wordsworth. 
The extremity of the arm of an anchor; the point of or beyond the fluke. 
To work upon ( as to dig, hoe, hack, or chop anything) with a bill. 
A declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the complainant has suffered from the defendant, or a fault committed by some person against a law. 
In Australia, a blind channel leading out from a river; -- sometimes called an anabranch. This is the sense of the word as used in the Public Works Department; but the term has also been locally applied to mere back-waters forming stagnant pools and to certain water channels arising from a source. 
Furnished with, or having, a bill, as a bird; -- used in composition; as, broad-billed. 
To direct, by a ticket or note, where to lodge. Hence: To quarter, or place in lodgings, as soldiers in private houses. Billeted in so antiquated a mansion. W. Irving. 
A short bar of metal, as of gold or iron. 
An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copper or other base metal, used in coinage. 
Bullion in the bar or mass. 
To surge; to rise and roll in waves or surges; to undulate. "The billowing snow." Prior. 
A slubbing or roving machine. 
Animals having two hands; -- a term applied by Cuvier to man as a special order of Mammalia. 
A box, frame, crib, or inclosed place, used as a receptacle for any commodity; as, a corn bin; a wine bin; a coal bin. 
To put into a bin; as, to bin wine. 
An old form of Be and Been. [Obs.] 
Twofold; double. [R.] "Binal revenge, all this." Ford. 
Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterized by two (things). Binary arithmetic, that in which numbers are expressed according to the binary scale, or in which two figures only, 0 and 1, are used, in lieu of ten; the cipher multiplying everything by two, as in common arithmetic by ten. Thus, 1 is one; 10 is two; 11 is three; 100 is four, etc. Davies & Peck. -- Binary compound (Chem.), a compound of two elements, or of an element and a compound performing the function of an element, or of two compounds performing the function of elements. -- Binary logarithms, a system of logarithms devised by Euler for facilitating musical calculations, in which 1 is logarithm of 2, instead of 10, as in the common logarithms, and the modulus 1.442695 instead of .43429448. -- Binary measure (Mus.), measure divisible by two or four; common time. -- Binary nomenclature (Nat. Hist.), nomenclature in which the names designate both genus and species. -- Binary scale (Arith.), a uniform scale of notation whose ratio is two. -- Binary star (Astron.), a double star whose members have a revolution round their common center of gravity. -- Binary theory (Chem.), the theory that all chemical compounds consist of two constituents of opposite and unlike qualities. 
That which is constituted of two figures, things, or parts; two; duality. Fotherby. 
Double; growing in pairs or couples. Gray. 
Indurated clay, when much mixed with the oxide of iron. Kirwan. 
A place where books, or other articles, are bound; a bookbinder's establishment. 
The winding or twining stem of a hop vine or other climbing plant. 
A heap or pile; as, a bing of wood. "Potato bings." Burns. "A bing of corn." Surrey. [Obs. or Dial. Eng. & Scot.] 
A bench. [North of Eng. & Scot.] 
A large species of barbel (Barbus bynni), found in the Nile, and much esteemed for food. 
Same as Binate. 
Bioplasm. 
The physiological individual, characterized by definiteness and independence of function, in distinction from the morphological individual or morphon. 
Relating to life; as, the biotic principle. 
A two-footed animal, as man. 
Having two feet; two-footed. By which the man, when heavenly life was ceased, Became a helpless, naked, biped beast. Byrom. 
Of or pertaining to the birch; birchen. 
To whip with a birch rod or twig; to flog. 
A warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate provided with wings. See Aves. 
A short blunt arrow for killing birds without piercing them. Hence: Anything which smites without penetrating. Shak. 
A birdcatcher. 
A pretty or dear little bird; -- a pet name. Tennyson. 
An ancient galley or vessel with two banks or tiers of oars. 
A birch tree. [Prov. Eng.] "The silver birk." Tennyson. 
A small European minnow (Leuciscus phoxinus). 
To whip with a birch or rod. [Obs.] 
Birchen; as, birken groves. Burns. 
A lively or mettlesome fellow. [Jocular, Scot.] Burns. 
To revolve or cause to revolve; to spin. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
To pour (beer or wine); to ply with drink; to drink; to carouse. [Obs. or Dial.] Skelton. 
A law made by husbandmen respecting rural affairs; a rustic or local law or by-law. [Written also byrlaw, birlie, birley.] 
To make, or move with, a whirring noise, as of wheels in motion. 
A coarse kind of thick woolen cloth, worn by the poor in the Middle Ages; also, a woolen cap or hood worn over the shoulders or over the head. 
A bristle or bristles. [Scot.] 
A fish of the turbot kind; the brill. [Written also burt, bret, or brut.] [Prov. Eng.] 
See Berth. [Obs.] De Foe. 
Twice; -- a word showing that something is, or is to be, repeated; as a passage of music, or an item in accounts. 
A cold north wind which prevails on the northern coasts of the Mediterranean and in Switzerland, etc.; -- nearly the same as the mistral. 
See Bice. 
To divide into two equal parts. 
of Besee. [Obs.] Chaucer. Evil biseye, ill looking. [Obs.] 
Same as Bikh. 
To admit into the church by confirmation; to confirm; hence, to receive formally to favor. 
To make seem younger, by operating on the teeth; as, to bishop an old horse or his teeth. 
To busy; to employ. [Obs.] 
Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together. King. 
See Bisque. 
The fifteen-spined (Gasterosteus spinachia). 
Having two spines. 
Unglazed white porcelain. 
A point taken by the receiver of odds in the game of tennis; also, an extra innings allowed to a weaker player in croquet. 
A white soup made of crayfish. 
Purblind; blinding. [Obs.] "Bisson rheum." Shak. 
See Bister. 
To put a bridle upon; to put the bit in the mouth of. 
imp. & p. p. of Bite. 
of Bid, for biddeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To commend; to commit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A blank on the edge or corner of a page, owing to a portion of the frisket, or something else, intervening between the type and paper. 
Doubly ternate, as when a petiole has three ternate leaflets. -- Bi*ter"nate*ly, adv. Gray. 
That bites; sharp; cutting; sarcastic; caustic. "A biting affliction." "A biting jest." Shak. 
See Bitts. 
To put round the bitts; as, to bitt the cable, in order to fasten it or to slacken it gradually, which is called veering away. Totten. 
of Bite. 
Terminating abruptly, as if bitten off; premorse. 
AA turn of the cable which is round the bitts. Bitter end, that part of a cable which is abaft the bitts, and so within board, when the ship rides at anchor. 
Any substance that is bitter. See Bitters. 
To make bitter. Wolcott. 
A frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the fore part of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides at anchor, or in warping. Other bitts are used for belaying (belaying bitts), for sustaining the windlass (carrick bitts, winch bitts, or windlass bitts), to hold the pawls of the windlass (pawl bitts) etc. 
Bitumen. [Poetic] May. 
A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, C2O2N3H5, formed by heating urea. It is intermediate between urea and cyanuric acid. 
Of or relating to the bivium. 
One side of an echinoderm, including a pair of ambulacra, in distinction from the opposite side (trivium), which includes three ambulacra. 
The upper faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond, which projects from the setting and occupies the zone between the girdle and the table. See Brilliant, n. 
To utter or tell unnecessarily, or in a thoughtless manner; to publish (secrets or trifles) without reserve or discretion. Udall. And yonder a vile physician blabbing The case of his patient. Tennyson. 
To talk thoughtlessly or without discretion; to tattle; to tell tales. She must burst or blab. Dryden. 
One who blabs; a babbler; a telltale. "Avoided as a blab." Milton. For who will open himself to a blab or a babbler. Bacon. 
Sullenly; threateningly; maliciously; so as to produce blackness. 
Mourning garments of a black color; funereal drapery. Friends weeping, and blacks, and obsequies, and the like show death terrible. Bacon. That was the full time they used to wear blacks for the death of their fathers. Sir T. North. 
A negro or negress. Shak. 
One who,makes crude potash, or black salts. 
The principal rafters of a roof. Weale. 
To furnish with a blade. 
To put forth or have a blade. As sweet a plant, as fair a flower, is faded As ever in the Muses' garden bladed. P. Fletcher. 
Composed of long and narrow plates, shaped like the blade of a knife. 
Consisting of blades. [R.] "Blady grass." Drayton. 
Dark blue or bluish gray; lead-colored. [Scot.] 
Mendacious boasting; falcefood; humbug. 
A bladder growing on the root of the tongue of a horse, against the windpipe, and stopping the breath. 
Free from blame; without fault; innocent; guiltless; -- sometimes followed by of. A bishop then must be blameless. 1 Tim. iii. 2. Blameless still of arts that polish to deprave. Mallet. We will be blameless of this thine oath. Josh. ii. 17. 
One who blames. Wyclif. 
A kind of linen cloth made in Normandy, the thread of which is partly blanches before it is woven. 
To bleach by excluding the light, as the stalks or leaves of plants, by earthing them up or tying them together. 
To grow or become white; as, his cheek blanched with fear; the rose blanches in the sun. [Bones] blanching on the grass. Tennyson. 
To use evasion. [Obs.] Books will speak plain, when counselors blanch. Bacon. 
Ore, not in masses, but mixed with other minerals. 
Flattery. [Obs.] 
A piece of metal prepared to be made into something by a further operation, as a coin, screw, nuts. 
A piece of rubber, felt, or woolen cloth, used in the tympan to make it soft and elastic. 
To sound loudly and somewhat harshly. "The trumpet blared." Tennyson. 
To cause to sound like the blare of a trumpet; to proclaim loudly. To blare its own interpretation. Tennyson. 
The harsh noise of a trumpet; a loud and somewhat harsh noise, like the blast of a trumpet; a roar or bellowing. With blare of bugle, clamor of men. Tennyson. His ears are stunned with the thunder's blare. J. R. Drake. 
Having the sensibilities deadened by excess or frequency of enjoyment; sated or surfeited with pleasure; used up. 
The structureless, protoplasmic tissue of the embryo; the primitive basis of an organ yet unformed, from which it grows. 
To cry, as a calf or sheep; to bleat; to make a senseless noise; to talk inconsiderately. [Low] 
To utter inconsiderately. [Low] If I have anything on my mind, I have to blat it right out. W. D. Howells. 
A fish. See Bleak, n. 
A white spot on the forehead of a horse. 
To blazon. [Obs.] Peacham. 
One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad. "Blazers of crime." Spenser. 
To describe in proper terms (the figures of heraldic devices); also, to delineate (armorial bearings); to emblazon. The coat of , arms, which I am not herald enough to blazon into English. Addison. 
To shine; to be conspicuous. [R.] 
The part of a tree which lies immediately under the bark; the alburnum or sapwood. 
To make white, or whiter; to remove the color, or stains, from; to blanch; to whiten. The destruction of the coloring matters attached to the bodies to be bleached is effected either by the action of the air and light, of chlorine, or of sulphurous acid. Ure. Immortal liberty, whose look sublime Hath bleached the tyrant's cheek in every varying clime. Smollett. 
To grow white or lose color; to whiten. 
A small European river fish (Leuciscus alburnus), of the family Cyprinidæ; the blay. [Written also blick.] 
Bleak. [Obs.] Dryden. 
To make somewhat sore or watery, as the eyes; to dim, or blur, as the sight. Figuratively: To obscure (mental or moral perception); to blind; to hoodwink. That tickling rheums Should ever tease the lungs and blear the sight. Cowper. To blear the eye of, to deceive; to impose upon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Somewhat blear. 
To make the noise of, or one like that of, a sheep; to cry like a sheep or calf. Then suddenly was heard along the main, To low the ox, to bleat the woolly train. Pope The ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baas, will never answer a calf when he bleats. Shak. 
A plaintive cry of, or like that of, a sheep. The bleat of fleecy sheep. Chapman's Homer. 
A large vesicle or bulla, usually containing a serous fluid; a blister; a bubble, as in water, glass, etc. Arsenic abounds with air blebs. Kirwan. 
Containing blebs, or characterized by blebs; as, blebby glass. 
imp. & p. p. of Bleed. 
Complexion; color; hue; likeness; form. [Archaic] For him which is so bright of blee. Lament. of Mary Magd. That boy has a strong blee of his father. Forby. 
Emitting, or appearing to emit, blood or sap, etc.; also, expressing anguish or compassion. 
A looking aside or askance. [Obs.] These blenches gave my heart another youth. Shak. 
To grow or make pale. Barbour. 
To mingle; to mix; to unite intimately; to pass or shade insensibly into each other, as colors. There is a tone of solemn and sacred feeling that blends with our conviviality. Irving. 
A thorough mixture of one thing with another, as color, tint, etc., into another, so that it cannot be known where one ends or the other begins. 
To make blind, literally or figuratively; to dazzle; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who, or that which, blends; an instrument, as a brush, used in blending. 
To blink; to shine; to look. [Obs.] 
A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidæ; -- so called from its coating of mucus. The species are numerous. 
Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained. Rider and horse, friend, foe, in one red burial blent. Byron. 
Blinded. Also (Chaucer), 3d sing. pres. Blindeth. [Obs.] 
Beatified. 
Blessed. "This patriarch blest." Milton. White these blest sounds my ravished ear assail. Trumbull. 
A form of decay in fruit which is overripe. 
of Blow. 
An inflammation in the foot of a horse, between the sole and the bone. [Obs.] 
To be affected by blight; to blast; as, this vine never blights. 
A downy species of aphis, or plant louse, destructive to fruit trees, infesting both the roots and branches; -- also applied to several other injurious insects. 
To stop; to cease; to desist. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Cessation; end. [Obs.] 
Abortive; failing to produce flowers or fruit; as, blind buds; blind flowers. Blind alley, an alley closed at one end; a cul-de-sac. -- Blind axle, an axle which turns but does not communicate motion. Knight. -- Blind beetle, one of the insects apt to fly against people, esp. at night. -- Blind cat (Zoöl.), a species of catfish (Gronias nigrolabris), nearly destitute of eyes, living in caverns in Pennsylvania. -- Blind coal, coal that burns without flame; anthracite coal. Simmonds. -- Blind door, Blind window, an imitation of a door or window, without an opening for passage or light. See Blank door or window, under Blank, a. -- Blind level (Mining), a level or drainage gallery which has a vertical shaft at each end, and acts as an inverted siphon. Knight. -- Blind nettle (Bot.), dead nettle. See Dead nettle, under Dead. -- Blind shell (Gunnery), a shell containing no charge, or one that does not explode. -- Blind side, the side which is most easily assailed; a weak or unguarded side; the side on which one is least able or disposed to see danger. Swift. -- Blind snake (Zoöl.), a small, harmless, burrowing snake, of the family Typhlopidæ, with rudimentary eyes. -- Blind spot (Anat.), the point in the retina of the eye where the optic nerve enters, and which is insensible to light. -- Blind tooling, in bookbinding and leather work, the indented impression of heated tools, without gilding; -- called also blank tooling, and blind blocking. -- Blind wall, a wall without an opening; a blank wall. 
A blindage. See Blindage. 
The dazzling whiteness about the horizon caused by the reflection of light from fields of ice at sea; ice blink. 
A gust of wind and rain. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree of happiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy. An then at last our bliss Full and perfect is. Milton. 
A genus of herbs (Blitum) with a fleshy calyx. Blitum capitatum is the strawberry blite. 
Gay; merry; sprightly; joyous; glad; cheerful; as, a blithe spirit. The blithe sounds of festal music. Prescott. A daughter fair, So buxom, blithe, and debonair. Milton. 
Quickly; forthwith. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To grow turgid as by effusion of liquid in the cellular tissue; to puff out; to swell. Arbuthnot. 
Bloated. [R.] Shak. 
A term of contempt for a worthless, dissipated fellow. [Slang] 
To dry (herrings) in smoke. See Blote. 
A small fresh-water fish (Uranidea Richardsoni); the miller's thumb. 
The perch on which a bird of prey is kept. 
A vessel employed in blockading. 
See Bloomery. 
A kind of silk lace originally of the color of raw silk, now sometimes dyed; -- called also blond lace. 
Descent from parents of recognized breed; excellence or purity of breed. 
An Australian honeysucker (Myzomela sanguineolata); -- so called from the bright red color of the male bird. 
To stain with blood. Overbury. 
A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals; as, the rose-red cobalt bloom. 
See Bloomery. 
Bloom; a blossoming. [Prov. Eng.] All that blooth means heavy autumn work for him and his hands. T. Hardy. 
The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast. [Obs.] A most tempestuous blore. Chapman. 
Blossomy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To take a blot; as, this paper blots easily. 
A large pustule, or a coarse eruption. Foul scurf and blotches him defile. Thomson. 
To cure, as herrings, by salting and smoking them; to bloat. [Obs.] 
A light, loose over-garment, like a smock frock, worn especially by workingmen in France; also, a loose coat of any material, as the undress uniform coat of the United States army. 
To flower; to blossom; to bloom. How blows the citron grove. Milton. 
To cause to blossom; to put forth (blossoms or flowers). The odorous banks, that blow Flowers of more mingled hue. Milton. 
A blossom; a flower; also, a state of blossoming; a mass of blossoms. "Such a blow of tulips." Tatler. 
A single heat or operation of the Bessemer converter. Raymond. 
A device for producing a current of air; as: (a) A metal plate temporarily placed before the upper part of a grate or open fire. (b) A machine for producing an artificial blast or current of air by pressure, as for increasing the draft of a furnace, ventilating a building or shaft, cleansing gram, etc. 
Opened; in blossom or having blossomed, as a flower. Shak. 
See Blowze. 
A blossoming; a bloom. [Obs. or Archaic] "In the blowth and bud." Sir W. Raleigh. 
Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland. 
A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench. [Obs.] Shak. 
Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy. 
To swell; to puff out, as with weeping. [Obs.] 
Low spirits; a fit of despondency; melancholy. [Colloq.] Berlin blue, Prussian blue. -- Mineral blue. See under Mineral. -- Prussian blue. See under Prussian. 
To make blue; to dye of a blue color; to make blue by heating, as metals, etc. 
With a blue color. Swift. 
A name given to several different species of plants having blue flowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus or bluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium. 
,a.Bluish. Southey. 
To deter (an opponent) from taking the risk of betting on his hand of cards, as the bluffer does by betting heavily on his own hand although it may be of less value. [U. S.] 
To act as in the game of bluff. 
Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins. "Bluish mists." Dryden. -- Blu"ish*ly, adv. -- Blu"ish*ness, n. 
To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay. 
Somewhat blunt. -- Blunt"ish*ness, n. 
Full of blurs; blurred. 
To utter suddenly and unadvisedly; to divulge inconsiderately; to ejaculate; -- commonly with out. Others . . . can not hold, but blurt out, those words which afterward they forced to eat. Hakewill. To blurt at, to speak contemptuously of. [Obs.] Shak. 
One that blushes. 
Like a blush; having the color of a blush; rosy. [R.] "A blushy color." Harvey. 
A genus of large American serpents, including the boa constrictor, the emperor boa of Mexico (B. imperator), and the chevalier boa of Peru (B. eques). 
The uncastrated male of swine; specifically, the wild hog. 
The stage in a theater; as, to go upon the boards, to enter upon the theatrical profession. 
To go on board of, or enter, as a ship, whether in a hostile or a friendly way. You board an enemy to capture her, and a stranger to receive news or make a communication. Totten. 
To obtain meals, or meals and lodgings, statedly for compensation; as, he boards at the hotel. We are several of us, gentlemen and ladies, who board in the same house. Spectator. 
To approach; to accost; to address; hence, to woo. [Obs.] I will board her, though she chide as loud As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack. Shak. 
To dress, as a stone, with a broad chisel. Weale. 
Boasting. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To go or row in a boat. I boated over, ran my craft aground. Tennyson. 
A working beam. 
The Poland marmot (Arctomys bobac). 
One who, or that which, bobs. 
A fine cord or narrow braid. 
A nickname for a policeman; -- from Sir Robert Peel, who remodeled the police force. See Peeler. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens. 
The fly at the end of the leader; an end fly. 
A cylindrical glass vessel, with a large and short neck. 
The round hole in the furnace of a glass manufactory through which the fused glass is taken out. Craig. 
A European fish (Box vulgaris), having a compressed body and bright colors; -- called also box, and bogue. 
A bowl or vessel made from a gourd. [Local, New York] Bartlett. 
To indicate by signs, as future events; to be the omen of; to portend to presage; to foreshow. A raven that bodes nothing but mischief. Goldsmith. Good onset bodes good end. Spenser. 
To foreshow something; to augur. Whatever now The omen proved, it boded well to you. Dryden. 
A messenger; a herald. Robertson. 
A stop; a halting; delay. [Obs.] 
Abode. There that night they bode. Tennyson. 
of Bid. Bid or bidden. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A botch; a patch. [Dial.] Whitlock. 
To botch; to mend clumsily; to patch. [Obs. or Dial.] 
See Budge. 
A large food fish (Diagramma lineatum), native of the East Indies. 
Wearing a bodice. Thackeray. 
Having a body; -- usually in composition; as, able-bodied. A doe . . . not altogether so fat, but very good flesh and good bodied. Hakluyt. 
Foreshowing; presaging; ominous. -- Bod"ing*ly, adv. 
A prognostic; an omen; a foreboding. 
An implement of steel, bone, ivory, etc., with a sharp point, for making holes by piercing; a 
See Baudekin. [Obs.] Shirley. 
A small Scotch coin worth about one sixth of an English penny. Sir W. Scott. 
The Osage orange. [Southwestern U.S.] 
The shank of a type, or the depth of the shank (by which the size is indicated); as, a nonpareil face on an agate body. 
To furnish with, or as with, a body; to produce in definite shape; to embody. To body forth, to give from or shape to mentally. Imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown. Shak. 
A colonist or farmer in South Africa of Dutch descent. 
Behoves or behooves. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To sink, as into a bog; to submerge in a bog; to cause to sink and stick, as in mud and mire. At another time, he was bogged up to the middle in the slough of Lochend. Sir W. Scott. 
A goblin; a bugbear. See Bogy. 
To embarrass with difficulties; to make a bungle or botch of. [Local, U. S.] 
Consisting of, or containing, a bog or bogs; of the nature of a bog; swampy; as, boggy land. 
A four-wheeled truck, having a certain amount of play around a vertical axis, used to support in part a locomotive on a railway track. 
A goblin; a specter; a frightful phantom; a bogy; a bugbear. [Written also boggle.] 
To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- said only of inferior craft. 
The boce; -- called also bogue bream. See Boce. 
Spurious; fictitious; sham; -- a cant term originally applied to counterfeit coin, and hence denoting anything counterfeit. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A liquor made of rum and molasses. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 
A specter; a hobgoblin; a bugbear. "Death's heads and bogies." J. H. Newman. [Written also bogey.] There are plenty of such foolish attempts at playing bogy in the history of savages. C. Kingsley. 
Bohea tea, an inferior kind of black tea. See under Tea. 
See Boyar. 
Act or state of boiling. [Colloq.] 
A hard, painful, inflamed tumor, which, on suppuration, discharges pus, mixed with blood, and discloses a small fibrous mass of dead tissue, called the core. A blind boil, one that suppurates imperfectly, or fails to come to a head. -- Delhi boil (Med.), a peculiar affection of the skin, probably parasitic in origin, prevailing in India (as among the British troops) and especially at Delhi. 
Dressed or cooked by boiling; subjected to the action of a boiling liquid; as, boiled meat; a boiled dinner; boiled clothes. 
A strong metallic vessel, usually of wrought iron plates riveted together, or a composite structure variously formed, in which steam is generated for driving engines, or for heating, cooking, or other purposes. 
A box. [Obs.] 
To poke; to thrust. [Obs. or Dial.] 
Of or pertaining to bole or clay; partaking of the nature and qualities of bole; clayey. 
A kind of missile weapon consisting of one, two, or more balls of stone, iron, or other material, attached to the ends of a leather cord; -- used by the Gauchos of South America, and others, for hurling at and entangling an animal. 
To make bold or daring. [Obs.] Shak. 
To be or become bold. [Obs.] 
To make bold; to encourage; to embolden. Ready speakers, being boldened with their present abilities to say more, . . . use less help of diligence and study. Ascham. 
In a bold manner. 
The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it. Enormous elm-tree boles did stoop and lean. Tennyson. 
An aperture, with a wooden shutter, in the wall of a house, for giving, occasionally, air or light; also, a small closet. [Scot.] Open the bole wi'speed, that I may see if this be the right Lord Geraldin. Sir W. Scott. 
A measure. See Boll, n., 2. Mortimer. 
A projecting molding round a panel. Same as Bilection. Gwilt. 
A Spanish dance, or the lively music which accompanies it. 
any fungus of the family Boletaceae. [WordNet 1.5] 
A kind of meteor; a bolis. 
A meteor or brilliant shooting star, followed by a train of light or sparks; esp. one which explodes. 
To form a boll or seed vessel; to go to seed. The barley was in the ear, and the flax was bolled. Ex. ix. 31. 
See Boln, a. 
To swell; to puff. Holland. 
A kind of large knife resembling a machete. [Phil. Islands] 
An exchange for the transaction of business. [Sp. Amer. & Phil. Islands] 
To refuse to support, as a nomination made by a party to which one has belonged or by a caucus in which one has taken part. 
To refuse to support a nomination made by a party or a caucus with which one has been connected; to break away from a party. 
In the manner of a bolt; suddenly; straight; unbendingly. [He] came bolt up against the heavy dragoon. Thackeray. Bolt upright. (a) Perfectly upright; perpendicular; straight up; unbendingly erect. Addison. (b) On the back at full length. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A refusal to support a nomination made by the party with which one has been connected; a breaking away from one's party. 
To discuss or argue privately, and for practice, as cases at law. Jacob. To bolt to the bran, to examine thoroughly, so as to separate or discover everything important. Chaucer. This bolts the matter fairly to the bran. Harte. The report of the committee was examined and sifted and bolted to the bran. Burke. 
A sieve, esp. a long fine sieve used in milling for bolting flour and meal; a bolter. B. Jonson. 
See Boultel. 
One who bolts; esp.: (a) A horse which starts suddenly aside. (b) A man who breaks away from his party. 
A kind of fishing line. See Boulter. 
An edible fish of the Nile (genus Chromis). [Written also bulti.] 
A rounded mass of anything, esp. a large pill. 
A large American serpent, so called from the sound it makes. 
A shell; esp. a spherical shell, like those fired from mortars. See Shell. 
To bombard. [Obs.] Prior. 
To sound; to boom; to make a humming or buzzing sound. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A genus of trees, called also the silkcotton tree; also, a tree of the genus Bombax. 
Pertaining to, or obtained from, the silkworm; as, bombic acid. 
A genus of moths, which includes the silkworm moth. See Silkworm. 
Good; valid as security for something. 
In or with good faith; without fraud or deceit; real or really; actual or actually; genuine or genuinely; as, you must proceed bona fide; a bona fide purchaser or transaction. 
Gentle; courteous; complaisant; yielding. [Obs.] 
Sugar confectionery; a sugarplum; hence, any dainty. 
A boy's game played with large marbles. 
The state of being bound; imprisonment; captivity, restraint. "This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds." Acts xxvi. 
To dispose in building, as the materials of a wall, so as to secure solidity. 
A xassal or serf; a slave. [Obs. or Archaic] 
In a state of servitude or slavery; captive. By one Spirit are we all baptized .. whether we be Jews or Bentiles, whether we be bond or free. 1 Cor. xii. 13. 
A small quadruped of Bengal (Paradoxurus bondar), allied to the genet; -- called also musk cat. 
Placed under, or covered by, a bond, as for the payment of duties, or for conformity to coertain regulations. Bonded goods, goods placed in a bonded warehouse; goods, for the duties on which bonds are given at the customhouse. -- Bonded warehouse, a warehouse in which goods on which the duties are unpaid are stored under bond and in the joint custody of the importer, or his agent, and the customs officers. 
A bonding stone or brick; a bondstone. 
A freeholder on a small scale. [Norway] Emerson. 
See Nicker tree. 
The hard, calcified tissue of the skeleton of vertebrate animals, consisting very largely of calcic carbonate, calcic phosphate, and gelatine; as, blood and bone. 
To sight along an object or set of objects, to see if it or they be level or in line, as in carpentry, masonry, and surveying. Knight. Joiners, etc., bone their work with two straight edges. W. M. Buchanan. 
The spiny dogfish. 
Either of two large antelopes (Boöcercus eurycercus of West Africa, and B. isaaci of East Africa) of a reddish or chestnut-brown color with narrow white stripes on the body. Their flesh is especially esteemed as food. 
To convert into, or make, good. To bonify evils, or tincture them with good. Cudworth. 
Beneficial, as opposed to statutory or civil; as, bonitary dominion of land. 
A witty repartee; a jest. 
A kind of embroidery made with a complicated sewing machine, said to have been originally invented by a Frenchman of the name of Bonnaz. The work is done either in freehand or by following a perforated design. 
(F., prop. good woman.) A female servant charged with the care of a young child. 
An additional piece of canvas laced to the foot of a jib or foresail in moderate winds. Hakluyt. 
To take off the bonnet or cap as a mark of respect; to uncover. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Bonny, a. 
A round and compact bed of ore, or a distinct bed, not communicating with a vein. 
A premium given for a loan, or for a charter or other privilege granted to a company; as the bank paid a bonus for its charter. Bouvier. 
A Buddhist or Fohist priest, monk, or nun. 
Having the characteristics of a booby; stupid. 
Same as Buddha. Malcom. 
To bawl; to cry loudly. [Low] Bartlett. 
The sailfish; -- called also woohoo. 
One whose occupation is to bind books. 
One who enters accounts or names, etc., in a book; a bookkeeper. 
Bookish. 
A company of Irish herdsmen, or a single herdsman, wandering from place to place with flocks and herds, and living on their milk, like the Tartars; also, a place in the mountain pastures inclosed for the shelter of cattle or their keepers. [Obs.] [Written also boley, bolye, bouillie.] Spenser. 
A long pole or spar, run out for the purpose of extending the bottom of a particular sail; as, the jib boom, the studding-sail boom, etc. 
To extend, or push, with a boom or pole; as, to boom out a sail; to boom off a boat. 
To cause to advance rapidly in price; as, to boom railroad or mining shares; to create a "boom" for; as to boom Mr. C. for senator. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A North American rodent, so named because it is said to make a booming noise. See Sewellel. 
The woody portion flax, which is separated from the fiber as refuse matter by retting, braking, and scutching. 
Like a boor; clownish; uncultured; unmannerly. -- Boor"ish*ly, adv. -- Boor"ish*ness, n. Which is in truth a gross and boorish opinion. Milton. 
See Bort. 
A stall or a crib for an ox, cow, or other animal. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To drink excessively. See Booze. 
A toper; a guzzler. See Boozer. 
To lift or push from behind (one who is endeavoring to climb); to push up; hence, to assist in overcoming obstacles, or in making advancement. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A push from behind, as to one who is endeavoring to climb; help. [Colloq. U. S.] 
The metal casing and flange fitted about a pipe where it passes through a roof. Boot catcher, the person at an inn whose business it was to pull off boots and clean them. [Obs.] Swift. -- Boot closer, one who, or that which, sews the uppers of boots. -- Boot crimp, a frame or device used by bootmakers for drawing and shaping the body of a boot. -- Boot hook, a hook with a handle, used for pulling on boots. -- Boots and saddles (Cavalry Tactics), the trumpet call which is the first signal for mounted drill. -- Sly boots. See Slyboots, in the Vocabulary. 
To boot one's self; to put on one's boots. 
Booty; spoil. [Obs. or R.] Shak. 
Having an undivided, horny, bootlike covering; -- said of the tarsus of some birds. 
A half boot or short boot. 
To forage for booty; to plunder. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
See Bothy. 
A servant at a hotel or elsewhere, who cleans and blacks the boots and shoes. 
That which is seized by violence or obtained by robbery, especially collective spoil taken in war; plunder; pillage. Milton. To play booty, to play dishonestly, with an intent to lose; to allow one's adversary to win at cards at first, in order to induce him to continue playing and victimize him afterwards. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 
To drink greedily or immoderately, esp. alcoholic liquor; to tipple. [Written also bouse, and boose.] Landor. This is better than boozing in public houses. H. R. Haweis. 
A carouse; a drinking. Sir W. Scott. 
One who boozes; a toper; a guzzler of alcoholic liquors; a bouser. 
A little intoxicated; fuddled; stupid with liquor; bousy. [Colloq.] C. Kingsley. 
The act of looking out suddenly, as from behind a screen, so as to startle some one (as by children in play), or of looking out and drawing suddenly back, as if frightened. I for sorrow sung, That such a king should play bopeep, And go the fools among. Shak. 
A mucilaginous plant of the genus Borago (B. officinalis), which is used, esp. in France, as a demulcent and diaphoretic. 
A salt formed by the combination of boric acid with a base or positive radical. 
A white or gray crystalline salt, with a slight alkaline taste, used as a flux, in soldering metals, making enamels, fixing colors on porcelain, and as a soap. It occurs native in certain mineral springs, and is made from the boric acid of hot springs in Tuscany. It was originally obtained from a lake in Thibet, and was sent to Europe under the name of tincal. Borax is a pyroborate or tetraborate of sodium, Na2B4O7.10H2O. Borax bead. (Chem.) See Bead, n., 3. 
The face of coal parallel to the natural fissures. 
See Bourd. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A villein who rendered menial service for his cottage; a cottier. The cottar, the bordar, and the laborer were bound to aid in the work of the home farm. J. R. Green. 
A note or memorandum, esp. one containing an enumeration of documents. 
To shoot out the nose or toss it in the air; Crabb. 
imp. of 1st & 2d Bear. 
Northern; pertaining to the north, or to the north wind; as, a boreal bird; a boreal blast. So from their own clear north in radiant streams, Bright over Europe bursts the boreal morn. Thomson. 
The north wind; -- usually a personification. 
Same as BourrÉ\'82. [Obs.] Swift. 
See Borrel. 
The smaller two-horned rhinoceros of South Africa (Atelodus bicornis). 
Of, pertaining to, or containing, boron. Boric acid, a white crystalline substance B(OH)3, easily obtained from its salts, and occurring in solution in the hot lagoons of Tuscany. 
A binary compound of boron with a more positive or basic element or radical; -- formerly called boruret. 
The chips or fragments made by boring. Boring bar, a revolving or stationary bar, carrying one or more cutting tools for dressing round holes. -- Boring tool (Metal Working), a cutting tool placed in a cutter head to dress round holes. Knight. 
Carried; conveyed; supported; defrayed. See Bear, v. t. 
A nonmetallic element occurring abundantly in borax. It is reduced with difficulty to the free state, when it can be obtained in several different forms; viz., as a substance of a deep olive color, in a semimetallic form, and in colorless quadratic crystals similar to the diamond in hardness and other properties. It occurs in nature also in boracite, datolite, tourmaline, and some other minerals. Atomic weight 10.9. Symbol B. 
Ignorant, unlearned; belonging to the laity. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To take (one or more) from the next higher denomination in order to add it to the next lower; -- a term of subtraction when the figure of the subtrahend is larger than the corresponding one of the minuend. 
One who borrows. Neither a borrower nor a lender be. Shak. 
Imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments made in cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used in lapidary work. 
Pledge; borrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A genus of ruminant quadrupeds, including the wild and domestic cattle, distinguished by a stout body, hollow horns, and a large fold of skin hanging from the neck. 
A drink, used in the East. See Boza. 
Figure; outline; show. [Obs.] 
Empty talk; contemptible nonsense; trash; humbug. [Colloq.] 
The lower part of a blast furnace, which slopes inward, or the widest space at the top of this part. 
A thicket; a small wood. "Through bosk and dell." Sir W. Scott. 
Having, or resembling, bosom; kept in the bosom; hidden. 
Characterized by recesses or sheltered hollows. 
See Boatswain. [Obs.] Dryden. 
A projecting ornament placed at the intersection of the ribs of ceilings, whether vaulted or flat, and in other situations. 
To ornament with bosses; to stud. 
A master workman or superintendent; a director or manager; a political dictator. [Slang, U. S.] 
Embossed; also, bossy. 
A rudimental antler of a young male of the red deer. 
Ornamented with bosses; studded. 
A cow or calf; -- familiarly so called. [U. S.] 
A game at cards, played by four persons, with two packs of fifty-two cards each; -- said to be so called from Boston, Massachusetts, and to have been invented by officers of the French army in America during the Revolutionary war. 
See Bots. 
A harbor on the east coast of Australia, and an English convict settlement there; -- so called from the number of new plants found on its shore at its discovery by Cook in 1770. 
In a clumsy manner. 
Marked with botches; full of botches; poorly done. "This botchy business." Bp. Watson. 
Unavailing; in vain. See Bootless. 
A dipterous insect of the family (Estridæ, of many different species, some of which are particularly troublesome to domestic animals, as the horse, ox, and sheep, on which they deposit their eggs. A common species is one of the botflies of the horse (Gastrophilus equi), the larvæ of which (bots) are taken into the stomach of the animal, where they live several months and pass through their larval states. In tropical America one species sometimes lives under the human skin, and another in the stomach. See Gadfly. 
The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of either. 
As well; not only; equally. 
To annoy; to trouble; to worry; to perplex. See Pother. 
To feel care or anxiety; to make or take trouble; to be troublesome. Without bothering about it. H. James. 
One who, or that which, bothers; state of perplexity or annoyance; embarrassment; worry; disturbance; petty trouble; as, to be in a bother. 
Same as Bothy. [Scot.] 
The larvæ of several species of botfly, especially those larvæ which infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and are supposed to be the cause of various ailments. [Written also botts.] 
To put into bottles; to inclose in, or as in, a bottle or bottles; to keep or restrain as in a bottle; as, to bottle wine or porter; to bottle up one's wrath. 
A bundle, esp. of hay. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Shak. 
The part of a ship which is ordinarily under water; hence, the vessel itself; a ship. My ventures are not in one bottom trusted. Shak. Not to sell the teas, but to return them to London in the same bottoms in which they were shipped. Bancroft. Full bottom, a hull of such shape as permits carrying a large amount of merchandise. 
Of or pertaining to the bottom; fundamental; lowest; under; as, bottom rock; the bottom board of a wagon box; bottom prices. Bottom glade, a low glade or open place; a valley; a dale. Milton. -Bottom grass, grass growing on bottom lands. -- Bottom land. See 1st Bottom, n., 7. 
A ball or skein of thread; a cocoon. [Obs.] Silkworms finish their bottoms in . . . fifteen days. Mortimer. 
To wind round something, as in making a ball of thread. [Obs.] As you unwind her love from him, Lest it should ravel and be good to none, You must provide to bottom it on me. Shak. 
See Bots. 
Same as Bush, a lining. 
Same as Bush, to line. 
A weevil; a worm that breeds in malt, biscuit, etc. [Obs.] Tusser., n. Etym: [F., fr. bouder to pout, be sulky.] 
Comic opera. See Opera Bouffe. 
To stave in; to bilge. [Obs.] Holland. 
Bouche (see Bouche, 2); food and drink; provisions. [Obs.] [They] made room for a bombardman that brought bouge for a country lady or two, that fainted . . . with fasting. B. Jonson . 
A charge representing a leather vessel for carrying water; -- also called water bouget. 
imp. & p. p. of Buy. 
Purchased; bribed. 
A long, flexible instrument, that is 
A curved handle. Sir W. Scott. 
Corrupted form Bolt. 
Corrupted form Bolt. 
Ready; prepared; destined; tending. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To make or get ready. Sir W. Scott. 
A dogfish of Europe (Scyllium catulus). 
With a sudden leap; suddenly. This impudent puppy comes bounce in upon me. Bickerstaff. 
The external or limiting line, either real or imaginary, of any object or space; that which limits or restrains, or within which something is limited or restrained; limit; confine; extent; boundary. He hath compassed the waters with bounds. Job xxvi. 10. On earth's remotest bounds. Campbell. And mete the bounds of hate and love. Tennyson. To keep within bounds, not to exceed or pass beyond assigned limits; to act with propriety or discretion. 
Spring from one foot to the other. 
imp. & p. p. of Bind. 
Ready or intending to go; on the way toward; going; -- with to or for, or with an adverb of motion; as, a ship is bound to Cadiz, or for Cadiz. "The mariner bound homeward." Cowper. 
The ibex. 
A chamber or a cottage. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A jest. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To jest. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A mullet (Mugil capito) found in the rivers of Southern Europe and in Africa. 
An exchange, or place where merchants, bankers, etc., meet for business at certain hours; esp., the Stock Exchange of Paris. 
To drink immoderately; to carouse; to booze. See Booze. 
Drink, esp. alcoholic drink; also, a carouse; a booze. "A good bouse of liquor." Carlyle. 
A toper; a boozer. 
Drunken; sotted; boozy. In his cups the bousy poet songs. Dryden. 
An outbreak; a caprice; a whim. [Obs.] 
An oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; an ancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usually estimated at fifteen acres. 
Relating to that tribe of ruminant mammals of which the genus Bos is the type. 
of or pertaining to the genus Bos; relating to, or resembling, the ox or cow; oxlike; as, the bovine genus; a bovine antelope. 
An inclination of the head, or a bending of the body, in token of reverence, respect, civility, or submission; an obeisance; as, a bow of deep humility. 
An appliance consisting of an elastic rod, with a number of horse hairs stretched from end to end of it, used in playing on a stringed instrument. 
To play (music) with a bow. -- v. i. 
The bending or rounded part of a ship forward; the stream or prow. 
Hence, figuratively: The interior part of anything; as, the bowels of the earth. His soldiers . . . cried out amain, And rushed into the bowels of the battle. Shak. 
To take out the bowels of; to eviscerate; to disembowel. 
An anchor carried at the bow of a ship. 
One of the two highest cards in the pack commonly used in the game of euchre. Right bower, the knave of the trump suit, the highest card (except the "Joker") in the game. -- Left bower, the knave of the other suit of the same color as the trump, being the next to the right bower in value. -- Best bower or Joker, in some forms of euchre and some other games, an extra card sometimes added to the pack, which takes precedence of all others as the highest card. 
To embower; to inclose. Shak. 
To lodge. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A young hawk, when it begins to leave the nest. [Obs.] 
Shading, like a bower; full of bowers. A bowery maze that shades the purple streams. Trumbull. 
A farm or plantation with its buildings. [U.S.Hist.] The emigrants [in New York] were scattered on boweries or plantations; and seeing the evils of this mode of living widely apart, they were advised, in 1643 and 1646, by the Dutch authorities, to gather into "villages, towns, and hamlets, as the English were in the habit of doing." Bancroft. 
Characteristic of the street called the Bowery, in New York city; swaggering; flashy. 
Same as Bower. [Obs.] 
A voracious ganoid fish (Amia calva) found in the fresh waters of the United States; the mudfish; -- called also Johnny Grindle, and dogfish. 
To swell out. See Bouge. [Obs.] 
To cause to leak. [Obs.] See Bouge. 
In a bending manner. 
An ancient game, popular in Great Britain, played with biased balls on a level plat of greensward. Like an uninstructed bowler, . . . who thinks to attain the jack by delivering his bowl straightforward upon it. Sir W. Scott. 
A mass of any rock, whether rounded or not, that has been transported by natural agencies from its native bed. See Drift. Bowlder clay, the unstratified clay deposit of the Glacial or Drift epoch, often containing large numbers of bowlders. -- Bowlder wall, a wall constructed of large stones or bowlders. 
A crooked leg. Jer. Taylor. 
One who plays at bowls, or who rolls the ball in cricket or any other game. 
See Bowl, a ball, a game. 
A man who uses a bow; an archer. The whole city shall flee for the noise of the horsemen and bowmen. Jer. iv. 29. Bowman's root. (Bot.) See Indian physic, under Indian. 
The man who rows the foremost oar in a boat; the bow oar. 
To make ready; to prepare; to dress. [Obs.] We will all bowne ourselves for the banquet. Sir W. Scott. 
To pull or haul; as, to bowse upon a tack; to bowse away, i. e., to pull all together. 
A carouse; a drinking bout; a booze. 
See Boultel. 
An onomatopoetic name for a dog or its bark. -- a. 
A tree or shrub, flourishing in different parts of the world. The common box (Buxus sempervirens) has two varieties, one of which, the dwaft box (B.suffruticosa), is much used for borders in gardens. The wood of the tree varieties, being very hard and smooth, is extensively used in the arts, as by turners, engravers, mathematical instrument makers, etc. Box elder, the ash-leaved maple (Negundo aceroides), of North America. -- Box holly, the butcher's broom (Russus aculeatus). -- Box thorn, a shrub (Lycium barbarum). -- Box tree, the tree variety of the common box. 
The square in which the pitcher stands. 
To inclose with boarding, lathing, etc., so as to bring to a required form. To box a tree, to make an incision or hole in a tree for the purpose of procuring the sap. -- To box off, to divide into tight compartments. -- To box up. (a) To put into a box in order to save; as, he had boxed up twelve score pounds. (b) To confine; as, to be boxed up in narrow quarters. 
A blow on the head or ear with the hand. A good-humored box on the ear. W. Irving. 
To fight with the fist; to combat with, or as with, the hand or fist; to spar. 
To strike with the hand or fist, especially to strike on the ear, or on the side of the head. 
To boxhaul. To box off (Naut.), to turn the head of a vessel either way by bracing the headyards aback. -- To box the compass (Naut.), to name the thirty-two points of the compass in their order. 
Made of boxwood; pertaining to, or resembling, the box (Buxus). [R.] The faded hue of sapless boxen leaves. Dryden. 
One who packs boxes. 
One who boxes; a pugilist. 
The external case of thin material used to bring any member to a required form. 
The act of fighting with the fist; a combat with the fist; sparring. Blackstone. Boxing glove, a large padded mitten or glove used in sparring for exercise or amusement. 
A male child, from birth to the age of puberty; a lad; hence, a son. My only boy fell by the side of great Dundee. Sir W. Scott. 
To act as a boy; -- in allusion to the former practice of boys acting women's parts on the stage. I shall see Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness. Shak. 
A winding or zigzag trench forming a path or communication from one siegework to another, to a magazine, etc. 
A Flemish sloop with a castle at each end. Sir W. Raleigh. 
Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy; childish; trifling; puerile. A boyish, odd conceit. Baillie. 
See under Law. 
An acidulated fermented drink of the Arabs and Egyptians, made from millet seed and various astringent substances; also, an intoxicating beverage made from hemp seed, darnel meal, and water. [Written also bosa, bozah, bouza.] 
A piece of material used to transmit, or change the direction of, weight or pressure; any one of the pieces, in a frame or truss, which divide the structure into triangular parts. It may act as a tie, or as a strut, and serves to prevent distortion of the structure, and transverse strains in its members. A boiler brace is a diagonal stay, connecting the head with the shell. 
To move around by means of braces; as, to brace the yards. To brace about (Naut.), to turn (a yard) round for the contrary tack. -- To brace a yard (Naut.), to move it horizontally by means of a brace. -- To brace in (Naut.), to turn (a yard) by hauling in the weather brace. -- To brace one's self, to call up one's energies. "He braced himself for an effort which he was little able to make." J. D. Forbes. - To brace to (Naut.), to turn (a yard) by checking or easing off the lee brace, and hauling in the weather one, to assist in tacking. -- To brace up (Naut.), to bring (a yard) nearer the direction of the keel by hauling in the lee brace. -- To brace up sharp (Naut.), to turn (a yard) as far forward as the rigging will permit. 
To get tone or vigor; to rouse one's energies; -with up. [Colloq.] 
A bitch of the hound kind. Shak. 
An opening caused by the parting of any solid body; a crack or breach; a flaw. Stain or brack in her sweet reputation. J. Fletcher. 
Salt or brackish water. [Obs.] Drayton. 
Brackish. Drayton. 
A bract. 
A thin nail, usually small, with a slight projection at the top on one side instead of a head; also, a small wire nail, with a flat circular head; sometimes, a small, tapering, square-bodied finishing nail, with a countersunk head. 
A hillside; a slope; a bank; a hill. [Scot.] Burns. 
To talk about one's self, or things pertaining to one's self, in a manner intended to excite admiration, envy, or wonder; to talk boastfully; to boast; -- often followed by of; as, to brag of one's exploits, courage, or money, or of the great things one intends to do. Conceit, more rich in matter than in words, Brags of his substance, not of ornament. Shak. 
To boast of. [Obs.] Shak. 
Brisk; full of spirits; boasting; pretentious; conceited. [Arhaic] A brag young fellow. B. Jonson. 
Proudly; boastfully. [Obs.] Fuller. 
In a manner to be bragged of; finely; proudly. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The One First Cause; also, one of the triad of Hindoo gods. The triad consists of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, and Siva, the Destroyer. 
To start; to awake. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Deceitful. [Obs.] Since Frenchmen are so braid, Marry that will, I live and die a maid. Shak. 
A thong of soft leather to bind up a hawk's wing. 
To haul up by the brails; -- used with up; as, to brail up a sail. 
The whitish mass of soft matter (the center of the nervous system, and the seat of consciousness and volition) which is inclosed in the cartilaginous or bony cranium of vertebrate animals. It is simply the anterior termination of the spinal cord, and is developed from three embryonic vesicles, whose cavities are connected with the central canal of the cord; the cavities of the vesicles become the central cavities, or ventricles, and the walls thicken unequally and become the three segments, the fore-, mid-, and hind-brain. 
Supplied with brains. If th' other two be brained like us. Shak. 
Having an active or vigorous mind. [Colloq.] 
To stew or broil in a covered kettle or pan. A braising kettle has a deep cover which holds coals; consequently the cooking is done from above, as well as below. Mrs. Henderson. 
A rough diamond. 
See Braise. 
of Break. [Arhaic] Tennyson. 
A fern of the genus Pteris, esp. the P. aquilina, common in almost all countries. It has solitary stems dividing into three principal branches. Less properly: Any fern. 
An ancient engine of war analogous to the crossbow and ballista. 
Full of brakes; abounding with brambles, shrubs, or ferns; rough; thorny. In the woods and braky glens. W. Browne. 
See Brahma. 
Sharp passion; vexation. [Obs.] Heart-burning brame. Spenser. 
The European carrion crow. 
A shoot or secondary stem growing from the main stem, or from a principal limb or bough of a tree or other plant. 
Diverging from, or tributary to, a main stock, line, way, theme, etc.; as, a branch vein; a branch road or line; a branch topic; a branch store. 
A young hawk when it begins to leave the nest and take to the branches. 
Any minute fungus which produces a burnt appearance in plants. The brands are of many species and several genera of the order Pucciniæi. 
A kind of decoration for the breast of a coat, sometimes only a frog with a loop, but in some military uniforms enlarged into a broad horizontal stripe. 
A strong alcoholic liquor distilled from wine. The name is also given to spirit distilled from other liquors, and in the United States to that distilled from cider and peaches. In northern Europe, it is also applied to a spirit obtained from grain. Brandy fruit, fruit preserved in brandy and sugar. 
Buckwheat. [Local, Eng.] Halliwell. 
Bear's-breech, or Acanthus. 
Having the appearance of bran; consisting of or containing bran. Wiseman. 
A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) -- called also brent and brand goose. The name is also applied to other related species. 
Steep. [Prov. Eng.] 
Same as Brazen. 
Hasty in temper; impetuous. Grose. 
Brittle, as wood or vegetables. [Colloq., U. S.] Bartlett. 
Broken and angular fragments of rocks underlying alluvial deposits. Lyell. 
An artificer who works in brass. Franklin. 
A journal bearing, so called because frequently made of brass. A brass is often lined with a softer metal, when the latter is generally called a white metal lining. See Axle box, Journal Box, and Bearing. 
A spotted European fish of the genus Lucioperca, resembling a perch. 
To burst. [Obs.] And both his yën braste out of his face. Chaucer. Dreadfull furies which their chains have brast. Spenser. 
A thin bed of coal mixed with pyrites or carbonate of lime. 
The quality of state or being brave. 
A daring villain; a bandit; one who sets law at defiance; a professional assassin or murderer. Safe from detection, seize the unwary prey. And stab, like bravoes, all who come this way. Churchill. 
Well done! excellent! an exclamation expressive of applause. 
A noisy quarrel; loud, angry contention; a wrangle; a tumult; as, a drunken brawl. His sports were hindered by the brawls. Shak . 
Brawny; strong; muscular. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong. "Brawny limbs." W. Irving. 
To pound, beat, rub, or grind small or fine. Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar, . . . yet will not his foolishness depart from him. Prov. xxvii. 22. 
To make or utter with a loud, discordant, or harsh and grating sound. Arms on armor clashing, brayed Horrible discord. MIlton. And varying notes the war pipes brayed. Sir W. Scott. 
The harsh cry of an ass; also, any harsh, grating, or discordant sound. The bray and roar of multitudinous London. Jerrold. 
A bank; the slope of a hill; a hill. See Brae, which is now the usual spelling. [North of Eng. & Scot.] Fairfax. 
An implement for braying and spreading ink in hand printing. 
One that brays like an ass. Pope. 
To cover or ornament with brass. Chapman. 
To carry through impudently or shamelessly; as, to brazen the matter through. Sabina brazened it out before Mrs. Wygram, but inwardly she was resolved to be a good deal more circumspect. W. Black. 
A hernia; a rupture. 
To make a breach or opening in; as, to breach the walls of a city. 
To break the water, as by leaping out; -- said of a whale. 
To spread. [Obs.] Ray. 
To cover with bread crumbs, preparatory to cooking; as, breaded cutlets. 
See Commutator. 
A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis, little valued as food. Several species are known. 
To clean, as a ship's bottom of adherent shells, seaweed, etc., by the application of fire and scraping. 
To meet, with the breast; to struggle with or oppose manfully; as, to breast the storm or waves. The court breasted the popular current by sustaining the demurrer. Wirt. To breast up a hedge, to cut the face of it on one side so as to lay bare the principal upright stems of the plants. 
Such as can be breathed. 
imp. & p. p. of Breed. Bred out, degenerated. "The strain of man's bred out into baboon and monkey." Shak. -- Bred to arms. See under Arms. -- Well bred. (a) Of a good family; having a good pedigree. "A gentleman well bred and of good name." Shak. [Obs., except as applied to domestic animals.] (b) Well brought up, as shown in having good manners; cultivated; refined; polite. 
A braid. [R.] Half lapped in glowing gauze and golden brede. Tennyson. 
The external angle of knee timber, the inside of which is called the throat. 
The breech mechanism in breech-loading small arms and certain special guns, as automatic and machine guns; --used frequently in referring to the method by which the movable barrels of breech- loading shotguns are locked, unlocked, or rotated to loading position. 
One who breeds or originates quarrels. [Obs.] "No telltale nor no breedbate." Shak. 
Refuse coal, coal ashes, and cinders, used in the burning of bricks. 
To blow gently. [R.] J. Barlow. To breeze up (Naut.), to blow with increasing freshness. 
The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures of the skull. 
An ancient Irish or Scotch judge. Brehon laws, the ancient Irish laws, -- unwritten, like the common law of England. They were abolished by statute of Edward III. 
In French games, a double pair royal. 
To burn. [Obs.] Chaucer. Consuming fire brent his shearing house or stall. W. Browne. 
Bran. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
of Bren. Burnt. [Obs.] 
A brant. See Brant. 
A brier. [Archaic] Chaucer. 
for Bursteth. [Obs.] 
To burst. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Birt. 
Of or relating to Brittany, or Bretagne, in France. -- n. 
Same as Britzska. 
A note or character of time, equivalent to two semibreves or four minims. When dotted, it is equal to three semibreves. It was formerly of a square figure (as thus: Moore. 
A commission giving an officer higher rank than that for which he receives pay; an honorary promotion of an officer. 
To confer rank upon by brevet. 
Taking or conferring rank by brevet; as, a brevet colonel; a brevet commission. 
The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed. Bacon. 
One who brews; one whose occupation is to prepare malt liquors. 
A rare zeolitic mineral occurring in white monoclinic crystals with pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, baryta, and strontia. 
Same as Brier. 
Incapable of being bribed; free from bribes. From thence to heaven's bribeless hall. Sir W. Raleigh. 
Miscellaneous curiosities and works of decorative art, considered collectively. A piece of bric-a-brac, any curious or antique article of virtu, as a piece of antiquated furniture or metal work, or an odd knickknack. 
A piece or fragment of a brick. See Bat, 4. Bacon. 
Full of bricks; formed of bricks; resembling bricks or brick dust. [R.] Spenser. 
A bird. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to a bride, or to wedding; nuptial; as, bridal ornaments; a bridal outfit; a bridal chamber. 
A nuptia; festival or ceremony; a marriage. Sweet day, so cool, so calm, so bright, The bridal of the earth and sky. Herbert. 
To make a bride of. [Obs.] 
The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of a violin, guitar, etc., serving of raise them and transmit their vibrations to the body of the instrument. 
A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps of wooden stairs are fastened. 
The piece in the interior of a gun lock, which holds in place the timbler, sear, etc. 
To hold up the head, and draw in the chin, as an expression of pride, scorn, or resentment; to assume a lofty manner; -- usually with up. "His bridling neck." Wordsworth. By her bridling up I perceived she expected to be treated hereafter not as Jenny Distaff, but Mrs. Tranquillus. Tatler. 
An abridgment or concise statement of a client's case, made out for the instruction of counsel in a trial at law. This word is applied also to a statement of the heads or points of a law argument. It was not without some reference to it that I perused many a brief. Sir J. Stephen. 
To make an abstract or abridgment of; to shorten; as, to brief pleadings. 
Full of briers; thorny. 
A place where briers grow. Huloet. 
A bridge. [Scot.] Burns. 
A two-masted, square-rigged vessel. Hermaphrodite brig, a two- masted vessel square-rigged forward and schooner-rigged aft. See Illustration in Appendix. 
A bridge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Brite, v. i. 
Splendor; brightness. [Poetic] Dark with excessive bright thy skirts appear. Milton. 
Brightly. Chaucer. I say it is the moon that shines so bright. Shak. 
A cabal, intrigue, faction, contention, strife, or quarrel. [Obs.] Chesterfield. 
To contend for; to canvass; to solicit. [Obs.] Bp. Hurd. 
A breach; ruin; downfall; peril. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A fish allied to the turbot (Rhombus levis), much esteemed in England for food; -- called also bret, pearl, prill. See Bret. 
The hair on the eyelids of a horse. Bailey. 
To be full to the brim. "The brimming stream." Milton. To brim over (literally or figuratively), to be so full that some of the contents flows over the brim; as, cup brimming over with wine; a man brimming over with fun. 
To fill to the brim, upper edge, or top. Arrange the board and brim the glass. Tennyson. 
Fierce; sharp; cold. See Breme. [Obs.] 
One of the radiating sticks of a fan. The outermost are larger and longer, and are called panaches. Knight. 
One who brings. Yet the first bringer of unwelcome news Hath but a losing office. Shak. Bringer in, one who, or that which, introduces. 
The edge, margin, or border of a steep place, as of a precipice; a bank or edge, as of a river or pit; a verge; a border; as, the brink of a chasm. Also Fig. "The brink of vice." Bp. Porteus. "The brink of ruin." Burke. The plashy brink of weedy lake. Bryant. 
Of or pertaining to brine, or to the sea; partaking of the nature of brine; salt; as, a briny taste; the briny flood. 
See Bryony. Tennyson. 
To make or become lively; to enliven; to animate; to take, or cause to take, an erect or bold attitude; -- usually with up. 
British. [Obs.] Spenser. -- n. 
The breeze fly. See Breeze. Shak. 
A broad chisel for stonecutting. 
To shape roughly, as a block of stone, by chiseling with a coarse tool. [Scot. & North of Eng.] 
Characterized by breadth. See Breadth. 
A wild duck (Aythya, or Fuligula, marila), which appears in large numbers on the eastern coast of the United States, in autumn; - - called also bluebill, blackhead, raft duck, and scaup duck. See Scaup duck. 
A peculiar brad-shaped spike, to be driven alongside the end of an abutting timber to prevent its slipping. 
Woven with a figure; as, broché goods. 
See Broach, n. 
A badger. Or with pretense of chasing thence the brock. B. Jonson. 
A brocket. Bailey. 
A pointed instrument, as a joiner's awl, a brad awl, a needle, or a small ship stick. 
To prod with a pointed instrument, as a lance; also, to broggle. [Scot. & Prov.] Sir W. Scott. 
A stout, coarse shoe; a brogue. 
Breeches. [Obs.] Shenstone. 
To braid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A tumult; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl; contention; discord, either between individuals or in the state. I will own that there is a haughtiness and fierceness in human nature which will which will cause innumerable broils, place men in what situation you please. Burke. 
To be subjected to the action of heat, as meat over the fire; to be greatly heated, or to be made uncomfortable with heat. The planets and comets had been broiling in the sun. Cheyne. 
imp. & p. p. of Break. 
Hogged; so weakened in the frame as to droop at each end; -- said of a ship. Totten. 
An agent employed to effect bargains and contracts, as a middleman or negotiator, between other persons, for a compensation commonly called brokerage. He takes no possession, as broker, of the subject matter of the negotiation. He generally contracts in the names of those who employ him, and not in his own. Story. 
Aliment; food. Dunglison. 
An oily, colorless fluid, CBr 
See Bromine. 
Of, pertaining to, or containing, bromine; -- said of those compounds of bromine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, bromic acid. 
A crystalline substance (chemically, tribromophenol, C6H2Br3OH), used as an antiseptic and disinfectant. 
Same as Broncho. 
A sword. [Obs.] 
A hard tough alloy of tin, copper, and iron, which can be used for guns. 
Like bronze. 
A painting all of one color, as a sepia painting, or an India painting. 
To adorn as with a brooch. [R.] 
Heavy waste in tin and copper ores. To sit on brood, to ponder. [Poetic] Shak. 
Inclined to brood. Ray. 
A natural stream of water smaller than a river or creek. The Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks of water. Deut. viii. 7. Empires itself, as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters. Shak. 
A mineral consisting of titanic oxide, and hence identical with rutile and octahedrite in composition, but crystallizing in the orthorhombic system. 
A plant having twigs suitable for making brooms to sweep with when bound together; esp., the Cytisus scoparius of Western Europe, which is a low shrub with long, straight, green, angular branches, mintue leaves, and large yellow flowers. No gypsy cowered o'er fires of furze and broom. Wordsworth. 
See Bream. 
Of or pertaining to broom; overgrowing with broom; resembling broom or a broom. If land grow mossy or broomy. Mortimer. 
Pottage made by pouring some boiling liquid on meal (esp. oatmeal), and stirring it. It is called beef brose, water brose, etc., according to the name of the liquid (beef broth, hot water, etc.) used. [Scot.] 
Brittle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Liquid in which flesh (and sometimes other substances, as barley or rice) has been boiled; thin or simple soup. I am sure by your unprejudiced discourses that you love broth better than soup. Addison. 
To bound to limit; to be at, or form, the edge of. [R.] Tending my flocks hard by i' the hilly crofts That brow this bottom glade. Milton. 
Having (such) a brow; -- used in composition; as, dark-browed, stern-browed. 
Of a dark color, of various shades between black and red or yellow. Cheeks brown as the oak leaves. Longfellow. Brown Bess, the old regulation flintlock smoothbore musket, with bronzed barrel, formerly used in the British army. -- Brown bread (a) Dark colored bread; esp. a kind made of unbolted wheat flour, sometimes called in the United States Graham bread. "He would mouth with a beggar though she smelt brown bread and garlic." Shak. (b) Dark colored bread made of rye meal and Indian meal, or of wheat and rye or Indian; rye and Indian bread. [U.S.] -- Brown coal, wood coal. See Lignite. -- Brown hematite or Brown iron ore (Min.), the hydrous iron oxide, limonite, which has a brown streak. See Limonite. -- Brown holland. See under Holland. -- Brown paper, dark colored paper, esp. coarse wrapping paper, made of unbleached materials. -- Brown spar (Min.), a ferruginous variety of dolomite, in part identical with ankerite. -- Brown stone. See Brownstone. -- Brown stout, a strong kind of proter or malt liquor. -- Brown study, a state of mental abstraction or serious reverie. W. Irving. 
A dark color inclining to red or yellow, resulting from the mixture of red and black, or of red, black, and yellow; a tawny, dusky hue. 
To become brown. 
Brown or, somewhat brown. "Browny locks." Shak. 
The tender branches or twigs of trees and shrubs, fit for the food of cattle and other animals; green food. Spenser. Sheep, goats, and oxen, and the nobler steed, On browse, and corn, and flowery meadows feed. Dryden. 
An animal that browses. 
The Malayan sun bear. 
The rhesus monkey. See Rhesus. 
A bear; -- so called in popular tales and fables. 
To fight with the fists; to box. Bruising was considered a fine, manly, old English custom. Thackeray. 
An injury to the flesh of animals, or to plants, fruit, etc., with a blunt or heavy instrument, or by collision with some other body; a contusion; as, a bruise on the head; bruises on fruit. From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness in it; but wounds, and bruises. Isa. i. 6. 
An abnormal sound of several kinds, heard on auscultation. 
To report; to noise abroad. I find thou art no less than fame hath bruited. Shak. 
Of or pertaining to winter. "The brumal solstice." Sir T. Browne. 
Mist; fog; vapors. "The drifting brume." Longfellow. 
Same as Brun, a brook. [Scot.] 
A tuft of hair on the mandibles. 
To move nimbly in haste; to move so lightly as scarcely to be perceived; as, to brush by. Snatching his hat, he brushed off like the wind. Goldsmith. 
Resembling a brush; shaggy; rough. 
Same as Brusque. 
To browse. [Obs.] Evelyn. 
See Birt. 
See Edentata. 
Brutish quality; brutality. 
To report; to bruit. [Obs.] 
The common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genus Bryonia. The root of B. alba (rough or white bryony) and of B. dioica is a strong, irritating cathartic. Black bryony, a plant (Tamus communis) so named from its dark glossy leaves and black root; black bindweed. 
A lantern; also, the moon. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
Strong malt liquor. [Cant] Prior. 
A young brother; a little boy; -- a familiar term of address of a small boy. 
To throw out in bubbles; to bubble. [Obs.] Sackville. 
A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis) of Egypt and the Desert of Sahara, supposed by some to be the fallow deer of the Bible. 
To cheat; to deceive. She has bubbled him out of his youth. Addison. The great Locke, who was seldom outwitted by false sounds, was nevertheless bubbled here. Sterne. 
Abounding in bubbles; bubbling. Nash. 
A woman's breast. [Low] 
Bub; -- a term of familiar or affectionate address to a small boy. 
An inflammation, with enlargement, of a limphatic gland, esp. in the groin, as in syphilis. 
Of or pertaining to the mouth or cheeks. 
A wooden frame or grid for roasting, smoking, or drying meat over fire. 
To expose (meat) in strips to fire and smoke upon a buccan. 
A South African shrub (Barosma) with small leaves that are dotted with oil dlands; also, the leaves themselves, which are used in medicine for diseases of the urinary organs, etc. Several species furnish the leaves. 
To break up or pulverize, as ores. 
To subject to a mode of punishment which consists in tying the wrists together, passing the arms over the bent knees, and putting a stick across the arms and in the angle formed by the knees. 
A frame on which firewood is sawed; a sawhorse; a sawbuck. Buck saw, a saw set in a frame and used for sawing wood on a sawhorse. 
The beech tree. [Scot.] Buck mast, the mast or fruit of the beech tree. Johnson. 
A horse or mule that bucks. 
One of the receptacles on the rim of a water wheel into which the water rushes, causing the wheel to revolve; also, a float of a paddle wheel. 
A large spiral marine shell, esp. the common whelk. See Buccinum. [Scot.] Deil's buckie, a perverse, refractory youngster. [Slang] 
A block of wood or plate of iron made to fit a hawse hole, or the circular opening in a half-port, to prevent water from entering when the vessel pitches. Blind buckler (Naut.), a solid buckler. -- Buckler mustard (Bot.), a genus of plants (Biscutella) with small bright yellow flowers. The seed vessel on bursting resembles two bucklers or shields. -- Buckler thorn, a plant with seed vessels shaped like a buckler. See Christ's thorn. -- Riding buckler (Naut.), a buckler with a hole for the passage of a cable. 
A white man; -- a term used by negroes of the African coast, West Indies, etc. 
White; white man's; strong; good; as, buckra yam, a white yam. 
A small protuberance on the stem or branches of a plant, containing the rudiments of future leaves, flowers, or stems; an undeveloped branch or flower. 
To graft, as a plant with another or into another, by inserting a bud from the one into an opening in the bark of the other, in order to raise, upon the budded stock, fruit different from that which it would naturally bear. The apricot and the nectarine may be, and usually are, budded upon the peach; the plum and the peach are budded on each other. Farm. Dict. 
The title of an incarnation of self-abnegation, virtue, and wisdom, or a deified religious teacher of the Buddhists, esp. Gautama Siddartha or Sakya Sinha (or Muni), the founder of Buddhism. 
An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in which stamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of rynning water so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions. 
To wash ore in a buddle. 
To move off; to stir; to walk away. I'll not budge an inch, boy. Shak. The mouse ne'er shunned the cat as they did budge From rascals worse than they. Shak. 
Brisk; stirring; jocund. [Obs.] South. 
A kind of fur prepared from lambskin dressed with the wool on; -- used formerly as an edging and ornament, esp. of scholastic habits. 
Sternness; severity. [Obs.] A Sara for goodness, a great Bellona for budgeness. Stanyhurst. 
One who budges. Shak. 
Consisting of fur. [Obs.] 
A little bud springing from a parent bud. We have a criterion to distinguish one bud from another, or the parent bud from the numerous budlets which are its offspring. E. Darwin. 
The grayish viscid substance constituting the buffy coat. See Buffy coat, under Buffy, a. 
To polish with a buff. See Buff, n., 5. 
To strike. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A buffet; a blow; -- obsolete except in the phrase "Blindman's buff." Nathless so sore a buff to him it lent That made him reel. Spenser. 
Firm; sturdy. And for the good old cause stood buff, 'Gainst many a bitter kick and cuff. Hudibras. 
The comic actress in an opera. -- a. 
The head of a buffer, which recieves the concussion, in railroad carriages. 
To deaden the sound of (bells) by muffling the clapper. 
One who buffets; a boxer. Jonson. 
A sort of coarse stuff; as, buffin gowns. [Obs.] 
The buffalo. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 
To puzzle; to be at a loss. [Obs.] Swift. 
The comic actor in an opera. 
Resembling, or characterized by, buff. Buffy coat, the coagulated plasma of blood when the red corpuscles have so settled out that the coagulum appears nearly colorless. This is common in diseased conditions where the corpuscles run together more rapidly and in denser masses than usual. Huxley. 
A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads. 
A general name applied to various insects belonging to the Hemiptera; as, the squash bug; the chinch bug, etc. 
Unnatural sexual intercourse; sodomy. 
Infested or abounding with bugs. 
A sort of wild ox; a buffalo. E. Phillips. 
A copper instrument of the horn quality of tone, shorter and more conical that the trumpet, sometimes keyed; formerly much used in military bands, very rarely in the orchestra; now superseded by the cornet; -- called also the Kent bugle. 
An elingated glass bead, of various colors, though commonly black. 
Jet black. "Bugle eyeballs." Shak. 
A plant of the genus Ajuga of the Mint family, a native of the Old World. Yellow bugle, the Ajuga chamæpitys. 
Ornamented with bugles. 
One who plays on a bugle. 
Form or mode of construction; general figure; make; as, the build of a ship. 
Shape; build; form of structure; as, the built of a ship. [Obs.] Dryden. 
Formed; shaped; constructed; made; -- often used in composition and preceded by the word denoting the form; as, frigate-built, clipper-built, etc. Like the generality of Genoese countrywomen, strongly built. Landor. 
An East Indian insectivorous mammal (Gymnura Rafflesii), somewhat like a rat in appearance, but allied to the hedgehog. 
A spheroidal body growing from a plant either above or below the ground (usually below), which is strictly a bud, consisting of a cluster of partially developed leaves, and producing, as it grows, a stem above, and roots below, as in the onion, tulip, etc. It differs from a corm in not being solid. 
To take the shape of a bulb; to swell. 
Of or pertaining to bulb; especially, in medicine, pertaining to the bulb of the spinal cord, or medulla oblongata; as, bulbar paralysis. 
Having a bulb; round-headed. 
A separable bulb formed on some flowering plants. 
A small or secondary bulb; hence, now almost exclusively: An aërial bulb or deciduous bud, produced in the leaf axils, as in the tiger lily, or relpacing the flowers, as in some onions, and capable, when separated, of propagating the plant; -- called also bulblet and brood bud. 
The Persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus). The name is also applied to several other Asiatic singing birds, of the family Timaliidæ. The green bulbuls belong to the Chloropsis and allied genera. [Written also buhlbuhl.] 
The bilge of a vessel. See Bilge, 2. Bulge ways. (Naut.) See Bilge ways. 
A driver or a brassy with a convex face. 
Bulged; bulging; bending, or tending to bend, outward. [Colloq.] 
The cargo of a vessel when stowed. 
To appear or seem to be, as to bulk or extent; to swell. The fame of Warburton possibly bulked larger for the moment. Leslie Stephen. 
A projecting part of a building. [Obs.] Here, stand behind this bulk. Shak. 
A person employed to ascertain the bulk or size of goods, in order to fix the amount of freight or dues payable on them. 
Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick; massive; as, bulky volumes. A bulky digest of the revenue laws. Hawthorne. 
The male of any species of cattle (Bovidæ); hence, the male of any large quadruped, as the elephant; also, the male of the whale. 
Of or pertaining to a bull; resembling a bull; male; large; fierce. Bull bat (Zoöl.), the night hawk; -- so called from the loud noise it makes while feeding on the wing, in the evening. -- Bull calf. (a) A stupid fellow. -- Bull mackerel (Zoöl.), the chub mackerel. -- Bull pump (Mining), a direct single-acting pumping engine, in which the steam cylinder is placed above the pump. -- Bull snake (Zoöl.), the pine snake of the United States. -- Bull stag, a castrated bull. See Stag. -- Bull wheel, a wheel, or drum, on which a rope is wound for lifting heavy articles, as logs, the tools in well boring, etc. 
To be in heat; to manifest sexual desire as cows do. [Colloq.] 
To endeavor to raise the market price of; as, to bull railroad bonds; to bull stocks; to bull Lake Shore; to endeavor to raise prices in; as, to bull the market. See 1st Bull, n., 4. 
A bleb; a vesicle, or an elevation of the cuticle, containing a transparent watery fluid. 
Swollen. [Obs.] 
Capable of resisting the force of a bullet. Bullet tree. See Bully tree. -- Bullet wood, the wood of the bullet tree. 
A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis). 
To intimidate with threats and by an overbearing, swaggering demeanor; to act the part of a bully toward. For the last fortnight there have been prodigious shoals of volunteers gone over to bully the French, upon hearing the peace was just signing. Tatler. 
To act as a bully. 
A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc. [India] Macaulay. 
A bolter or bolting cloth; also, bran. [Obs.] 
Same as Bolty. 
A trawl; a boulter; the mod 
The buttock. [Low] Shak. 
To make murmuring or humming sound. Jamieson. 
A humming noise. Halliwell. 
The bittern. [Local, Eng.] 
To make a hollow or humming noise, like that of a bumblebee; to cry as a bittern. As a bittern bumbleth in the mire. Chaucer. 
A projecting beam or boom; as: (a) One projecting from each bow of a vessel, to haul the fore tack to, called a tack bumpkin. (b) Onr from each quarter, for the main-brace blocks, and called brace bumpkin. (c) A small outrigger over the stern of a boat, to extend the mizzen. [Written also boomkin.] 
An idle, worthless fellow, who is without any visible means of support; a dissipated sponger. [Slang, U.S.] 
To strike, as with or against anything large or solid; to thump; as, to bump the head against a wall. 
To come in violent contact with something; to thump. "Bumping and jumping." Southey. 
One of the protuberances on the cranium which are associated with distinct faculties or affections of the mind; as, the bump of "veneration;" the bump of "acquisitiveness." [Colloq.] 
To make a loud, heavy, or hollow noise, as the bittern; to boom. As a bittern bumps within a reed. Dryden. 
The noise made by the bittern. 
An awkward, heavy country fellow; a clown; a country lout. "Bashful country bumpkins." W. Irving. 
A small isolated mass of ore, as distinguished from a continuous vein. Page. 
To swell out into a bunch or protuberance; to be protuberant or round. Bunching out into a large round knob at one end. Woodward. 
To form into a bunch or bunches. 
Yielding irregularly; sometimes rich, sometimes poor; as, a bunchy mine. Page. 
League; confederacy; esp. the confederation of German states. 
An embankment against inundation. [India] S. Wells Williams. 
A boat or raft used in the East Indies in the landing of passengers and goods. 
A number of things bound together, as by a cord or envelope, into a mass or package convenient for handling or conveyance; a loose package; a roll; as, a bundle of straw or of paper; a bundle of old clothes. The fable of the rods, which, when united in a bundle, no strength could bend. Goldsmith. Bundle pillar (Arch.), a column or pier, with others of small dimensions attached to it. Weale. 
System; discipline. [India] 
To stop, as the orifice in the bilge of a cask, with a bung; to close; -- with up. To bung up, to use up, as by bruising or over exertion; to exhaust or incapacitate for action. [Low] He had bunged up his mouth that he should not have spoken these three years. Shelton (Trans. Don Quixote). 
To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner. 
To make or mend clumsily; to manage awkwardly; to botch; -- sometimes with up. I always had an idea that it would be bungled. Byron. 
A clumsy or awkward performance; a botch; a gross blunder. Those errors and bungles which are committed. Cudworth. 
A kind of canoe used in Central and South America; also, a kind of boat used in the Southern United States. Bartlett. 
Same as Bunyon. 
To go to bed in a bunk; -- sometimes with in. [Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett. 
A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by a sham lottery. [Written also bunco.] Bunko steerer, a person employed as a decoy in bunko. [Slang, U.S.] 
See Buncombe. 
See Bun. 
A great collection of ore without any vein coming into it or going out from it. 
A pet name for a rabbit or a squirrel. 
A fungus (Ustilago foetida) which affects the ear of cereals, filling the grains with a fetid dust; -- also called pepperbrand. 
The middle part, cavity, or belly of a sail; the part of a furled sail which is at the center of the yard. Totten. 
To swell out; as, the sail bunts. 
To strike or push with the horns or head; to butt; as, the ram bunted the boy. 
A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgar woman. [Cant] Her . . . daughters, like bunters in stuff gowns. Goldsmith. 
A float; esp. a floating object moored to the bottom, to mark a channel or to point out the position of something beneath the water, as an anchor, shoal, rock, etc. Anchor buoy, a buoy attached to, or marking the position of, an anchor. -- Bell buoy, a large buoy on which a bell is mounted, to be rung by the motion of the waves. -- Breeches buoy. See under Breeches. -- Cable buoy, an empty cask employed to buoy up the cable in rocky anchorage. -- Can buoy, a hollow buoy made of sheet or boiler iron, usually conical or pear-shaped. -- Life buoy, a float intended to support persons who have fallen into the water, until a boat can be dispatched to save them. -- Nut or Nun buoy, a buoy large in the middle, and tapering nearly to a point at each end. -- To stream the buoy, to let the anchor buoy fall by the ship's side into the water, before letting go the anchor. -- Whistling buoy, a buoy fitted with a whistle that is blown by the action of the waves. 
To float; to rise like a buoy. "Rising merit will buoy up at last." Pope. 
A fresh-water fish of the genus Lota, having on the nose two very small barbels, and a larger one on the chin. [Written also burbolt.] 
The tops or heads of stream-work which lie over the stream of tin. 
A club. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A pilgrim's staff. [Written also burden.] Rom. of R. 
An official of a bureau; esp. an official confirmed in a narrow and arbitrary routine. C. Kingsley. 
Same as Borrel. 
A tenure by which houses or lands are held of the king or other lord of a borough or city; at a certain yearly rent, or by services relating to trade or handicraft. Burrill. 
A swallow-tailed flag; a distinguishing pen 
A borough or incorporated town, especially, one in Scotland. See Borough. 
A kind of oatmeal pudding, or thick gruel, used by seamen. [Written also burgout.] 
See Burg. [Obs.] 
One who, or that which, buries. Till the buriers have buried it. Ezek. xxxix. 15. And darkness be the burier of the dead. Shak. 
One who works with the burin. For. Quart. Rev. 
The red-breasted house sparrow of California (Carpodacus frontalis); -- called also crimson-fronted bullfinch. [Written also burrion.] 
The practice of killing persons for the purpose of selling their bodies for dissection. 
To dress or finish up (cloth); to pick knots, burs, loose threads, etc., from, as in finishing cloth. Burling iron, a peculiar kind of nippers or tweezers used in burling woolen cloth. 
A coarse fabric, made of jute or hemp, used for bagging; also, a finer variety of similar material, used for curtains, etc. [Written also burlaps.] 
One who burls or dresses cloth. 
A member of the Burman family, one of the four great families Burmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese. -- a. 
To apply a cautery to; to cauterize. 
To combine energetically, with evolution of heat; as, copper burns in chlorine. 
A small stream. [Scot.] 
See Burnt. 
Burnished. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium); especially, P.Sanguisorba, the common, or garden, burnet. Burnet moth (Zoöl.), in England, a handsome moth (Zygæna filipendula), with crimson spots on the wings. -- Burnet saxifrage. (Bot.) See Saxifrage. -- Canadian burnet, a marsh plant (Poterium Canadensis). -- Great burnet, Wild burnet, Poterium (or Sanguisorba) oficinalis. 
A small brook. [Scot.] Burns. 
Consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as with fire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun. Burnt ear, a black, powdery fungus which destroys grain. See Smut. -- Burnt offering, something offered and burnt on an altar, as an atonement for sin; a sacrifice. The offerings of the Jews were a clean animal, as an ox, a calf, a goat, or a sheep; or some vegetable substance, as bread, or ears of wheat or barley. Called also burnt sacrifice. [2 Sam. xxiv. 22.] 
A guttural pronounciation of the letter r, produced by trilling the extremity of the soft palate against the back part of the tongue; rotacism; -- often called the Newcastle, Northumberland, or Tweedside, burr. 
To speak with burr; to make a hoarse or guttural murmur. Mrs. Browning. 
A sort of pear, called also the red butter pear, from its smooth, delicious, soft pulp. 
Same as Borrel. 
A donkey. [Southern U.S.] 
A heap or heaps of rubbish or refuse. 
One who, or that which, burrows; an animal that makes a hole under ground and lives in it. 
Abounding in burs, or containing burs; resembling burs; as, burry wool. 
Any sac or saclike cavity; especially, one of the synovial sacs, or small spaces, often lined with synovial membrane, interposed between tendons and bony prominences. 
Of or pertaining to a bursa or to bursæ. 
The office of a bursar. 
A youth; especially, a student in a german university. 
An ornamental case of hold the corporal when not in use. Shipley. 
p. p. of Burst, v. i. [Obs.] 
See Birt. [Prov. Eng.] 
A peculiar tackle, formed of two or more blocks, or pulleys, the weight being suspended of a hook block in the bight of the running part. 
The ground or place for burying the dead; burial place. 
An omnibus. [Colloq.] 
A military headdress or cap, used in the British army. It is of fur, with a bag, of the same color as the facings of the regiment, hanging from the top over the right shoulder. 
One who searches for ores; a prospector. [U.S.] 
The tail, or brush, of a fox. To beat about the bush, to approach anything in a round-about manner, instead of coming directly to it; -- a metaphor taken from hunting. -- Bush bean (Bot.), a variety of bean which is low and requires no support (Phaseolus vulgaris, variety nanus). See Bean, 1. -- Bush buck, or Bush goat (Zoöl.), a beautiful South African antelope (Tragelaphus sylvaticus); -- so called because found mainly in wooden localities. The name is also applied to other species. -- Bush cat (Zoöl.), the serval. See Serval. -- Bush chat (Zoöl.), a bird of the genus Pratincola, of the Thrush family. -- Bush dog. (Zoöl.) See Potto. -- Bush hammer. See Bushhammer in the Vocabulary. -- Bush harrow (Agric.) See under Harrow. -- Bush hog (Zoöl.), a South African wild hog (Potamochoerus Africanus); -- called also bush pig, and water hog. -- Bush master (Zoöl.), a venomous snake (Lachesis mutus) of Guinea; -- called also surucucu. -- Bush pea (Bot.), a variety of pea that needs to be bushed. -- Bush shrike (Zoöl.), a bird of the genus Thamnophilus, and allied genera; -- called also batarg. Many species inhabit tropical America. -- Bush tit (Zoöl.), a small bird of the genus Psaltriparus, allied to the titmouse. P. minimus inhabits California. 
To branch thickly in the manner of a bush. "The bushing alders." Pope. 
A lining for a hole to make it smaller; a thimble or ring of metal or wood inserted in a plate or other part of machinery to receive the wear of a pivot or arbor. Knight. 
To furnish with a bush, or lining; as, to bush a pivot hole. 
A duty payable on commodities by the bushel. [Eng.] 
A small bush. 
In a busy manner. 
A thin, elastic strip of metal, whalebone, wood, or other material, worn in the front of a corset. Her long slit sleeves, stiff busk, puff verdingall, Is all that makes her thus angelical. Marston. 
Wearing a busk. Pollok. 
See Bosky, and 1st Bush, n. Shak. 
A kiss; a rude or playful kiss; a smack. Shak. 
To kiss; esp. to kiss with a smack, or rudely. "Nor bussed the milking maid." Tennyson. Kissing and bussing differ both in this, We buss our wantons, but our wives we kiss. Herrick. 
A small strong vessel with two masts and two cabins; -- used in the herring fishery. The Dutch whalers and herring busses. Macaulay. 
A bird of the genus Otis. 
Something huge; a roistering blade; also, a spree. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett. 
To move noisily; to be rudely active; to move in a way to cause agitation or disturbance; as, to bustle through a crowd. And leave the world for me to bustle in. Shak. 
Great stir; agitation; tumult from stirring or excitement. A strange bustle and disturbance in the world. South. 
A kind of pad or cushion worn on the back below the waist, by women, to give fullness to the skirts; -- called also bishop, and tournure. 
A bust; a statue. With some antick bustoes in the niches. Ashmole. 
To make or keep busy; to employ; to engage or keep engaged; to occupy; as, to busy one's self with books. Be it thy course to busy giddy minds With foreign quarrels. Shak. 
The outer apartment or kitchen of a two-roomed house; -- opposed to ben, the inner room. [Scot.] 
See Butt, v., and Abut, v. 
An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon, C4H10, of the marsh gas, or paraffin, series. 
An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whose principal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.; the head servant in a large house. The butler and the baker of the king of Egypt. Gen. xl. 5. Your wine locked up, your butler strolled abroad. Pope. 
To strike by thrusting the head against; to strike with the head. Two harmless lambs are butting one the other. Sir H. Wotton. 
A large cask or vessel for wine or beer. It contains two hogsheads. 
The common English flounder. 
A detached low mountain, or high rising abruptly from the general level of the surrounding plain; -- applied to peculiar elevations in the Rocky Mountain region. The creek . . . passes by two remarkable buttes of red conglomerate. Ruxton. 
One who, or that which, butts. 
To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will not button. 
One who mines by contract, at so much per ton of coal or ore. 
A compound radical, regarded as butane, less one atom of hydrogen. 
An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common box tree. It is identical with bebeerine; -- called also buxina. 
To negotiate or treat about a purchase. I will buy with you, sell with you. Shak. 
One who buys; a purchaser. 
See Buzz. [Obs.] 
To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like that made by bees with their wings. Hence: To utter a murmuring sound; to speak with a low, humming voice. Like a wasp is buzzed, and stung him. Longfellow. However these disturbers of our peace Buzz in the people's ears. Shak. 
To sound with a "buzz". H. Sweet. 
The audible friction of voice consonants. H. Sweet. 
One who, or that which, buzzes; a whisperer; a talebearer. And wants not buzzers to infect his ear With pestilent speeches of his father's death. Shak. 
A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men who drag sledges in coal mines. 
A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye. T. Hughes. By the bye, in passing; by way of digression; apropos to the matter in hand. [Written also by the by.] 
An election held by itself, not at the time of a general election. 
Past; gone by. "Bygone fooleries." Shak 
Something gone by or past; a past event. "Let old bygones be" Tennyson. Let bygones be bygones, let the past be forgotten. 
A peninsula. [Obs.] 
To give a nickname to. Camden. 
A private path; an obscure way; indirect means. God known, my son, By what bypaths, and indirect crooked ways, I met this crown. Shak. 
Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while the main action proceeds. 
A cow house. [N. of Eng.& Scot.] 
A private or obscure road. "Through slippery byroads" Swift. 
See Byssus, n., 1. 
See Byssus, n., 1. 
A tuft of long, tough filaments which are formed in a groove of the foot, and issue from between the valves of certain bivalve mollusks, as the Pinna and Mytilus, by which they attach themselves to rocks, etc. 
A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside from the main one. " Take no byways." Herbert. 
Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondary business. 
The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all Mohammedans must pray. [Written also kaaba.] 
A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.] 
Case. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37) pints. W. H. Ward. 2 Kings vi. 25. 
To unite in a small party to promote private views and interests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot. Caballing still against it with the great. Dryden. 
One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewish traditions. "Studious cabalists." Swift. 
A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; Hence, a lady's flat workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba. C. Bronté. 
A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of strength. 
The capybara. See Capybara. 
To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge. I'll make you . . . cabin in a cave. Shak. 
To confine in, or as in, a cabin. I am cabined, cribbed, confined, bound in To saucy doubts and fears. Shak. 
Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece; -- also called sons of Hephæstus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the art of working metals. [Written also Cabeiri.] Liddell & Scott. 
A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex, rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; -- called also cable molding. Bower cable, the cable belonging to the bower anchor. -- Cable road, a railway on which the cars are moved by a continuously running endless rope operated by a stationary motor. -- Cable's length, the length of a ship's cable. Cables in the merchant service vary in length from 100 to 140 fathoms or more; but as a maritime measure, a cable's length is either 120 fathoms (720 feet), or about 100 fathoms (600 feet, an approximation to one tenth of a nautical mile). -- Cable tier. (a) That part of a vessel where the cables are stowed. (b) A coil of a cable. -- Sheet cable, the cable belonging to the sheet anchor. -- Stream cable, a hawser or rope, smaller than the bower cables, to moor a ship in a place sheltered from wind and heavy seas. -- Submarine cable. See Telegraph. -- To pay out the cable, To veer out the cable, to slacken it, that it may run out of the ship; to let more cable run out of the hawse hole. -- To serve the cable, to bind it round with ropes, canvas, etc., to prevent its being, worn or galled in the hawse, et. -- To slip the cable, to let go the end on board and let it all run out and go overboard, as when there is not time to weigh anchor. Hence, in sailor's use, to die. 
To ornament with cabling. See Cabling. 
To telegraph by a submarine cable [Recent] 
Adorned with cabling. 
A little cable less than ten inches in circumference. 
The driver of a cab. 
To roast, as a cabob. Sir. T. Herbert. 
The pronghorn antelope. [Also written cabrit, cabret.] 
Same as Cabrée. 
A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize tackles, etc. 
A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and the West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seeds about the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and broma are prepared. 
A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry. Kane. 
A seal, as of a letter. Lettre de cachet Etym: [F.], a sealed letter, especially a letter or missive emanating from the sovereign; -- much used in France before the Revolution as an arbitrary order of imprisonment. 
A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the breath. 
To ease the body by stool; to go to stool. Pope. 
The broken noise of a goose or a hen. 
One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc. 
Any plant of the order Cactacæ, as the prickly pear and the night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly natives of the warmer parts of America. Cactus wren (Zoöl.), an American wren of the genus Campylorhynchus, of several species. 
Of or pertaining to landed property. Cadastral survey, or Cadastral map, a survey, map, or plan on a large scale (Usually topographical map, which exaggerates the dimensions of houses and the breadth of roads and streams, for the sake of distinctness. Brande & C. 
A kind of worsted lace or ribbon. "Caddises, cambrics, lawns." Shak. 
A jackdaw. [Prov. Eng.] 
A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in. 
Bred by hand; domesticated; petted. He brought his cade lamb with him. Sheldon. 
To bring up or nourish by hand, or with tenderness; to coddle; to tame. [Obs.] Johnson. 
A barrel or cask, as of fish. "A cade of herrings." Shak. A cade of herrings is 500, of sprats 1,000. Jacob, Law Dict. 
A species of juniper (Juniperus Oxycedrus) of Mediterranean countries. Oil of cade, a thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by destructive distillation of the inner wood of the cade. It is used as a local application in skin diseases. 
A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant. McElrath. 
Falling. [R.] "Cadent tears." Shak. 
See Cadre. 
The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a cadetship. 
A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale. 
One who carries hawks on a cadge. 
Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also, wanton. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 
An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually the judge of a town or village. 
A kind of coarse serge. 
An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where zinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic sulphide. 
The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff. [Written also cader.] 
Perishable; frail; transitory. [Obs.] Hickes. The caduke pleasures of his world. Bp. Fisher. 
See Cadie. 
See Cæcum. 
A wind from the northeast. Milton. 
Art of producing metal decorative work other than statuary, as reliefs, intaglios, engraving, chasing, etc. 
A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Cæsar. Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful ruler. See Kaiser, Kesar. Malborough anticipated the day when he would be servilely flattered and courted by Cæsar on one side and by Louis the Great on the other. Macaulay. 
A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or restaurant where coffee and liquors are served. 
See Kaffir. 
A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown with sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by a belt or sash. 
To clothe with a caftan. [R.] The turbaned and caftaned damsel. Sir W. Scott. 
See Keg. [Obs.] 
An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; as the cage of a staircase. Gwilt. 
To confine in, or as in, a cage; to shut up or confine. "Caged and starved to death." Cowper. 
Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison. "The caged cloister." Shak. 
A king of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the Philippine Islands. 
A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until 1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They are supposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths. 
The root of an American shrub (Chiococca racemosa), found as far north as Florida Keys, from which cahincic acid is obtained; also, the root of the South American Chiococca anguifuga, a celebrated antidote for snake poison. 
Partnership; as to go in cahoot with a person. [Slang, southwestern U. S.] Bartlett. 
See Cayman. 
A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a Levantine vessel of larger size. 
A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar. [Prov. Eng.] 
A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, or crystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, in Scotland. 
To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle. I am not about to cajole or flatter you into a reception of my views. F. W. Robertson. 
In Louisiana, a person reputed to be Acadian French descent. 
To form into a cake, or mass. 
To concrete or consolidate into a hard mass, as dough in an oven; to coagulate. Clotted blood that caked within. Addison. 
To cackle as a goose. [Prov. Eng.] 
Wolfram, an ore of tungsten. Simmonds. 
A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches. 
A human skull reported, by Prof. J. D. Whitney, as found in 1886 in a Tertiary auriferous gravel deposit, lying below a bed of black lava, in Calaveras County, California. It is regarded as very doubtful whether the skull really belonged to the deposit in which it was found. If it did, it indicates an unprecedented antiquity for human beings of an advanced type. 
A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit. Ure. 
A hollow tube or spur at the base of a petal or corolla. 
Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or barefooted; as the calced Carmelites. 
See Calx. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime. 
To make warm or hot. 
To grow hot or warm. Sir T. Browne. 
The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee. Calf's-foot jelly, jelly made from the feet of calves. The gelatinous matter of the feet is extracted by boiling, and is flavored with sugar, essences, etc. 
The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu. [Written also Kali.] 
See Chalice. 
Made of, or having the apperance of, calico; -- often applied to an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of a color strikingly different from its main color. [Colloq. U. S.] 
Hot; burning; ardent. [Obs.] Bailey. 
Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on the cornea; also, the speck itself. 
An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make tea canisters. 
Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of Turkey, [Writting also calif.] 
A cup. See Calyx. 
To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red or black chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines, so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which it is laid or held. [Writting also calque] 
A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1. 
An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as its pastor. 
A genus of plants, of the order Araceæ. 
Same as Callet. [Obs.] A callat of boundless tongue. Shak. 
A kind of head covering; a caul. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who calls. 
A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip. [Obs.] [Written also callat.] 
To rail or scold. [Obs.] Brathwait. 
Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty. [R.] 
A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte. B. Jonson. 
A kind of duck. See Old squaw. 
The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exuded at the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous in consistence, but is ultimately converted into true bone and unites the fragments into a single piece. 
Freodom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or abeence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or waves; tranquility; stilness; quiet; serenity. The wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Mark. iv. 39. A calm before a storm is commonly a peace of a man's own making. South. 
One who, or that which, makes calm. 
In a calm manner. The gentle stream which calmly flows. Denham. 
Tranquil; peaceful; calm. [Poet.] "A still and calmy day" Spenser. 
See 2d Calk, v. t. 
To bear, or be susceptible of, being calvered; as, grayling's flesh will calver. Catton. 
Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- applied to a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the French botanist Candolle. 
Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc. Haliwell. 
The covering of a flower. See Flower. 
Crooked. [Obs.] 
A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or other headpiece. 
A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) of northwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food by the Indians. [Written also camas, cammas, and quamash.] 
An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has a high camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck). 
To cut bend to an upward curve; to construct, as a deck, with an upward curve. 
To curve upward. 
imp. of Come. 
A slender rod of cast lead, with or without grooves, used, in casements and stained-glass windows, to hold together the panes or pieces of glass. 
A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdens and for riding. The camel is remarkable for its ability to go a long time without drinking. Its hoofs are small, and situated at the extremities of the toes, and the weight of the animal rests on the callous. The dromedary (Camelus dromedarius) has one bunch on the back, while the Bactrian camel (C. Bactrianus) has two. The llama, alpaca, and vicuña, of South America, belong to a related genus (Auchenia). 
A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewel for personal adornment, or like. 
A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: The camera obscura when used in photography. See Camera, and Camera obscura. Bellows camera. See under Bellows. -- In camera (Law), in a judge's chamber, that is, privately; as, a judge hears testimony which is not fit for the open court in camera. -- Panoramic, or Pantascopic, camera, a photographic camera in which the lens and sensitized plate revolve so as to expose adjacent parts of the plate successively to the light, which reaches it through a narrow vertical slit; -- used in photographing broad landscapes. Abney. 
A light, loose dress or robe. [Also written camus.] [Obs.] All in a camis light of purple silk. Spenser. 
A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton. [Sometimes written camelot and camblet.] 
See Camass. 
A mound of earth in which potatoes and other vegetables are stored for protection against frost; -- called also burrow and pie. [Prov. Eng.] 
To afford rest or lodging for, as an army or travelers. Had our great palace the capacity To camp this host, we all would sup together. Shak. 
To play the game called camp. [Prov. Eng.] Tusser. 
One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp. 
The principal grounds of a college or school, between the buildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus. 
See Camis. [Obs.] 
an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used in old poetry. 
To preserve by putting in sealed cans [U. S.] "Canned meats" W. D. Howells. Canned goods, a general name for fruit, vegetables, meat, or fish, preserved in hermetically sealed cans. 
A zealot. "Simon the Canaanite." Matt. x. 4. 
A British province in North America, giving its name to various plants and animals. Canada balsam. See under Balsam. -- Canada goose. (Zoöl.) See Whisky Jack. -- Canada lynx. (Zoöl.) See Lynx. -- Canada porcupine (Zoöl.) See Porcupine, and Urson. -- Canada rice (Bot.) See under Rick. -- Canada robin (Zoöl.), the cedar bird. 
A tube or duct; as, the alimentary canal; the semicircular canals of the ear. Canal boat, a boat for use on a canal; esp. one of peculiar shape, carrying freight, and drawn by horses walking on the towpath beside the canal. Canal lock. See Lock. 
A sofa having a seat at each end at right angles to the main seats. 
An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricated sensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in the newspapers to hoax the public. 
To perform the canary dance; to move nimbly; to caper. [Obs.] But to jig of a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet. Shak. CANARY BIRD Ca*na"ry bird`. (Zoöl.) 
A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous or extravagant postures and gestures. 
To suppress or omit; to strike out, as matter in type. Canceled figures (Print), figures cast with a line across the face., as for use in arithmetics. 
To turn in flight; -- said of a hawk. [Obs.] Nares. He makes his stoop; but wanting breath, is forced To cancelier. Massinger. 
A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most common shore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonah crab, etc. See Crab. 
Fluor spar. See Kand. 
The position of a candidate; state of being a candidate; candidateship. 
A shrub (the Myrica cerifera, or wax-bearing myrtle), common in North America, the little nuts of which are covered with a greenish white wax, which was formerly, used for hardening candles; -- also called bayberry tree, bayberry, or candleberry. 
A machine for spreading out cotton cloths to prepare them for printing. 
A more or less solid article of confectionery made by boiling sugar or molasses to the desired consistency, and than crystallizing, molding, or working in the required shape. It is often flavored or colored, and sometimes contains fruit, nuts, etc. 
A weight, at Madras 500 pounds, at Bombay 560 pounds. 
A thicket of canes. Ellicott. 
Filled with white flakes; mothery; -- said vinegar when containing mother. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A very broad and heavy wooden collar which certain offenders in China are compelled to wear as a punishment. 
Of or pertaining to the pointed tooth on each side the incisors. Canine appetite, a morbidly voracious appetite; bulimia. -- Canine letter, the letter r. See R. -- Canine madness, hydrophobia. -- Canine toth, a toth situated between the incisor and bicuspid teeth, so called because well developen in dogs; usually, the third tooth from the front on each side of each jaw; an eyetooth, or the corresponding tooth in the lower jaw. 
A canine tooth. 
A genus of carnivorous mammals, of the family Canidæ, including the dogs and wolves. Canis major Etym: [L., larger dog], a constellation to the southeast of Orion, containing Sirius or the Dog Star. -- Canis minor Etym: [L., smaller dog], a constellation to the east of Orion, containing Procyon, a star of the first magnitude. 
A disease incident to trees, causing the bark to rot and fall off. 
Eaten out by canker, or as by canker. [Obs.] 
A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet. See Cane, 4. 
A genus of tropical plants, with large leaves and often with showy flowers. The Indian shot. (C. Indica) is found in gardens of the northern United States. 
A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, on which it may, however, revolve independently. 
See Carom. [Eng.] 
Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two. 
To manage a canoe, or voyage in a canoe. 
A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a council and confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation, code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority. Various canons which were made in councils held in the second centry. Hock. 
To cover with, or as with, a canopy. "A bank with ivy canopied." Milton. 
A segment forming a side piece in the head of a cask. Knight. 
Of the nature of cant; affected; vulgar. To introduce and multiply cant words in the most ruinous corruption in any language. Swift. 
A all for bidders at a public sale; an auction. "To sell their leases by cant." Swift. 
to sell by auction, or bid a price at a sale by auction. [Archaic] Swift. 
A Cantabrigian. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. 
See Cantle. 
To move in a canter. 
To cause, as a horse, to go at a canter; to ride (a horse) at a canter. 
Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as, cantharidal plaster. 
To cut in pieces; to cut out from. [Obs.] [Written also cantile.] 
The highest vocal part; the air or melody in choral music; anciently the tenor, now the soprano. Canto fermo ( Etym: [It.] (Mus.), the plain ecclesiastical chant in cathedral service; the plain song. 
A song or canto [Obs.] Write loyal cantons of contemned love. Shak. 
A division of a shield occupying one third part of the chief, usually on the dexter side, formed by a perpendicular line from the top of the shield, meeting a horizontal line from the side. The king gave us the arms of England to be borne in a canton in our arms. Evelyn. 
To allot separate quarters to, as to different parts or divisions of an army or body of troops. 
A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor. The cantor of the church intones the Te Deum. Milman. 
Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry. "The canty dame." Wordsworth [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Contented with little, and canty with mair. Burns. 
See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated. 
Made of, pertaining to, or resembling, canvas or coarse cloth; as, a canvas tent. 
Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes. Milton. 
The English form of the Spanish word Cañon. 
The whole top of the head of a bird from the base of the bill to the nape of the neck. 
To uncover the head respectfully. Shak. 
See Cap-a-pie. Shak. 
A piece or point of land, extending beyind the adjacent coast into the sea or a lake; a promonotory; a headland. Cape buffalo (Zoöl.) a large and powerful buffalo of South Africa (Bubalus Caffer). It is said to be the most dangerous wild beast of Africa. See Buffalo, 2. -- Cape jasmine, Cape jassamine. See Jasmine. -- Cape pigeon (Zoöl.), a petrel (Daptium Capense) common off the Cape of Good Hope. It is about the size of a pigeon. -- Cape wine, wine made in South Africa [Eng.] -- The Cape, the Cape of Good Hope, in the general sense of southern extremity of Africa. Also used of Cape Horn, and, in New England, of Cape Cod. 
To head or point; to keep a course; as, the ship capes southwest by south. 
A sleeveless garment or part of a garment, hanging from the neck over the back, arms, and shoulders, but not reaching below the hips. See Cloak. 
To gape. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A composite stone (quartz, schorl, and hornlende) in the walls of tin and copper lodes. 
To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; to skip; to spring; to prance; to dance. He capers, he dances, he has eyes of youth. Shak. 
A frolicsome leap or spring; a skip; a jump, as in mirth or dancing; a prank. To cut a caper, to frolic; to make a sportive spring; to play a prank. Shak. 
A vessel formerly used by the Dutch, privateer. Wright. 
A plant of the genus Capparis; -- called also caper bush, caper tree. 
As much as will fill a cap. A capful of wind (Naut.), a light puff of wind. 
A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body of the person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writ of capias. 
See under Tenant. 
A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba. 
See Capel. 
See Capelin. 
A sort of cotton so short and fine thet it can not be spun, used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc. 
A hood; especialy, the hood attached to the gown of a monk. 
To cover with, or as with, a hood; hence, to hoodwink or blind. Hudibras. 
A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded to improve his flesh for the table. Shak. The merry thought of a capon. W. Irving. 
To castrate; to make a capon of. 
A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet. It counts for forty points. Hoyle. 
To win all the tricks from, in playing at piquet. 
A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood. 
A plane used for working the upper surface of staircase rails. 
A genus of ruminants, including the common goat. 
Wine produced on the island of Capri, commonly a light, dry, white wine. 
Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives. Capric acid, C9H9.CO2H, Caprylic acid, C7H15.CO2H, and Caproic acid, C5H11.CO2H, are fatty acids occurring in small quantities in butter, cocoanut oil, etc., united with glycerin; they are colorless oils, or white crystalline solids, of an unpleasant odor like that of goats or sweat. 
Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat, or genus Capra, is the type. 
One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize. 
The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum. 
The stars also called Charles's Wain, the Great Bear, or the Dipper. The Pleiads, Hyads, and the Northern Car. Dryden. 
See Carack. 
A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon. [Spelt also carrack.] The bigger whale like some huge carrack law. Waller. 
A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called also croft. 
A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including the yellow or goldon mackerel. 
The leader or driver of the camels in caravan. 
An elementary substance, not metallic in its nature, which is present in all organic compounds. Atomic weight 11.97. Symbol C. it is combustible, and forms the base of lampblack and charcoal, and enters largely into mineral coals. In its pure crystallized state it constitutes the diamond, the hardest of known substances, occuring in monometric crystals like the octahedron, etc. Another modification is graphite, or blacklead, and in this it is soft, and occurs in hexagonal prisms or tables. When united with oxygen it forms carbon dioxide, commonly called carbonic acid, or carbonic oxide, according to the proportions of the oxygen; when united with hydrogen, it forms various compounds called hydrocarbons. Compare Diamond, and Graphite. Carbon compounds, Compounds of carbon (Chem.), those compounds consisting largely of carbon, commonly produced by animals and plants, and hence called organic compounds, though their synthesis may be effected in many cases in the laboratory. The formation of the compounds of carbon is not dependent upon the life process. I. Remsen -Carbon dioxide, Carbon monoxide. (Chem.) See under Carbonic. -- Carbon light (Elec.), an extremely brilliant electric light produced by passing a galvanic current through two carbon points kept constantly with their apexes neary in contact. -- Carbon point (Elec.), a small cylinder or bit of gas carbon moved forward by clockwork so that, as it is burned away by the electric current, it shall contantly maintain its proper relation to the opposing point. -- Carbon tissue, paper coated with gelatine and pigment, used in the autotype process of photography. Abney. -- Gas carbon, a compact variety of carbon obtained as an incrustation on the interior of gas retorts, and used for the manufacture of the carbon rods of pencils for the voltaic, arc, and for the plates of voltaic batteries, etc. 
A large, globular glass bottle, esp. one of green glass, inclosed in basket work or in a box, for protection; -- used commonly for carrying corrosive liquids; as sulphuric acid, etc. 
A perforated pasteboard or sheet-metal plate for warp threads, making part of the Jacquard apparatus of a loom. See Jacquard. 
To play at cards; to game. Johnson. 
A genus of cruciferous plants, containing the lady's-smock, cuckooflower, bitter cress, meadow cress, etc. 
One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc. Shak. 
Pertaining to, resembling, or hear the heart; as, the cardiac arteries; the cardiac, or left, end of the stomach. 
A yellow oil liquid, extracted from the shell of the cashew nut. 
To be anxious or solictous; to be concerned; to have regard or interest; -- sometimes followed by an objective of measure. I would not care a pin, if the other three were in. Shak. Master, carest thou not that we perish Mark. iv. 38. To care for. (a) To have under watchful attention; to take care of. (b) To have regard or affection for; to like or love. He cared not for the affection of the house. Tennyson. 
To cause (a vessel) to lean over so that she floats on one side, leaving the other side out of water and accessible for repairs below the water line; to case to be off the keel. 
To incline to one side, or lie over, as a ship when sailing on a wind; to be off the keel. 
The fight of a hawk. 
To move or run rapidly. areering gayly over the curling waves. W. Irving. 
A fast of forty days on bread and water. [Obs.] 
An act of endearment; any act or expression of affection; an embracing, or touching, with tenderness. Wooed her with his soft caresses. Langfellow. He exerted himself to win by indulgence and caresses the hearts of all who were under his command. Macaulay. 
To treat with tokens of fondness, affection, or kindness; to touch or speak to in a loving or endearing manner; to fondle. The lady caresses the rough bloodhoun. Sir W. Scott. 
A mark [^] used by writers and proof readers to indicate that something is interlined above, or inserted in the margin, which belongs in the place marked by the caret. 
The hawkbill turtle. See Hawkbill. 
A numerous and widely distributed genus of perennial herbaceous plants of the order Cypreaceæ; the sedges. 
pret. of Carve. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The lading or freight of a ship or other vessel; the goods, merchandise, or whatever is conveyed in a vessel or boat; load; freight. Cargoes of food or clothing. E. Everett. 
A native of the Caribbee islands or the coaste of the Caribbean sea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of South America, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West India islands. 
A south American fresh water fish of the genus Serrasalmo of many species, remakable for its voracity. When numerous they attack man or beast, often with fatal results. 
Ulceration of bone; a process in which bone disintegrates and is carried away piecemeal, as distinguished from necrosis, in which it dies in masses. 
A keel. (a) That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals, commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification. (b) A longitudinal ridge or projection like the keel of a boat. 
A noxious or corroding care; solicitude; worry. [Archaic.] His heavy head, devoid of careful cark. Spenser. Fling cark and care aside. Motherwell. Ereedom from the cares of money and the cark of fashion. R. D. Blackmore. 
To be careful, anxious, solicitous, or troubles in mind; to worry or grieve. [R.] Beau. & fl. 
To vex; to worry; to make by anxious care or worry. [R.] Nor can a man, independently . . . of God's blessing, care and cark himself one penny richer. South. 
A kind of food. See citation, below. Caring or carl are gray steeped in water and fried the next day in butter or fat. They are eaten on the second Sunday before Easter, formerly called Carl Sunday. Robinson's Whitby Glossary (1875). 
An old woman. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 
A churl; a boor; a peasant or countryman. [Obs.] Shak. 
A man whose employment is to drive, or to convey goods in, a car or car. 
The matter of which the philosopher's stone was believed to be composed. 
The state of being carnal; carnality; sensualism. [R.] 
A disease of horses, on which the mouth is so furred that the afflicted animal can not eat. 
Of or pertaining to flesh; specif. (Physiol. Chem.), 
A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, found in extract of meat, and related to xanthin. 
An evergreen leguminous tree (Ceratania Siliqua) found in the countries bordering the Mediterranean; the St. John's bread; -- called also carob tree. 
To sing; esp. to sing joyfully; to warble. And carol of love's high praise. Spenser. The gray linnets carol from the hill. Beattie. 
A shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contact with two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more balls with the player's ball. In England it is called cannon. 
To make a carom. 
A fresh-water herbivorous fish (Cyprinus carpio.). Several other species of Cyprinus, Catla, and Carassius are called carp. See Cruclan carp. 
Of or pertaining to the carpus, or wrist. -- n. 
One who carps; a caviler. Shak. 
To cover with, or as with, a carpet; to spread with carpets; to furnish with a carpet or carpets. Carpeted temples in fashionable squares. E. Everett. 
The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, or antibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eight short bones disposed in two rows. 
See Quarrel, an arrow. 
Same as 4th Carol. 
See 4th Carol. 
See Carom. 
An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota), of many varieties. 
A strolling gamester. [Ireland] Spenser. 
To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as a hare. Johnson. To carry on, to behave in a wild, rude, or romping manner. [Colloq.] 
A tract of land, over which boats or goods are carried between two bodies of navigable water; a carrying place; a portage. Etym: [U.S.] 
A carack. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Low, fertile land; a river valley. [Scot.] Jomieson. 
To carry burdens in a cart; to follow the business of a carter. 
A blank paper, with a person's signature, etc., at the bottom, given to another person, with permission to superscribe what conditions he pleases. Hence: Unconditional terms; unlimited authority. 
An agreement between belligerents for the exchange of prisoners. Wilhelm. 
To defy or challenge. [Obs.] You shall cartel him. B. Jonson. 
Of or pertaining to the French philosopher René Descartes, or his philosophy. The Cartesion argument for reality of matter. Sir W. Hamilton. Cartesian coördinates (Geom), distance of a point from lines or planes; -- used in a system of representing geometric quantities, invented by Descartes. -- Cartesian devil, a small hollow glass figure, used in connection with a jar of water having an elastic top, to illustrate the effect of the compression or expansion of air in changing the specific gravity of bodies. -- Cartesion oval (Geom.), a curve such that, for any point of the curve mr + m'r' = c, where r and r' are the distances of the point from the two foci and m, m' and c are constant; -- used by Descartes. 
Pasteboard for paper boxes; also, a pasteboard box. Carton pierre (, a species of papier-maché, imitating stone or bronze sculpture. Knight. 
Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy. 
A carucate. [Obs.] Burrill. 
Having the planks meet flush at the seams, instead of lapping as in a clinker-built vessel. 
Wrought by carving; ornamented by carvings; carved. [Poetic] A carven bowl well wrought of beechen tree. Bp. Hall. The carven cedarn doors. Tennyson. A screen of carven ivory. Mrs. Browning. 
A hawk which is of proper age and training to be carried on the hand; a hawk in its first year. Booth. 
One of a species of aromatic oils, resembling carvacrol. 
A house or mansion. [Sp. Amer. & Phil. Islands] 
Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending. 
A shallow tray divided into compartments or "boxes" for holding type. 
A patient under treatment; an instance of sickness or injury; as, ten cases of fever; also, the history of a disease or injury. A proper remedy in hypochondriacal cases. Arbuthnot. 
To propose hypothetical cases. [Obs.] "Casing upon the matter." L'Estrange. 
OF or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid. 
A proteid substance present in both the animal and the vegetable kingdom. In the animal kindom it is chiefly found in milk, and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in the vegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds of leguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin. [Written also caseine.] 
A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near the rampart; barracks. Bescherelle. 
Same as Casein. 
A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paid out; a money box. [Obs.] This bank is properly a general cash, where every man lodges his money. Sir W. Temple. £20,000 are known to be in her cash. Sir R. Winwood. 
To pay, or to receive, cash for; to exchange for money; as, cash a note or an order. 
To disband. [Obs.] Garges. 
A Chinese coin. 
A tree (Anacardium occidentale) of the same family which the sumac. It is native in tropical America, but is now naturalized in all tropical countries. Its fruit, a kidney-shaped nut, grows at the extremity of an edible, pear-shaped hypocarp, about three inches long. Casbew nut, the large, kidney-shaped fruit of the cashew, which is edible after the caustic oil has been expelled from the shell by roasting the nut. 
See Catechu. 
Dried dung of cattle used as fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Waterland. 
To put into a cask. 
A gasket. See Gasket. 
To put into, or preserve in, a casket. [Poetic] "I have casketed my treasure." Shak. 
A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without a vizor) for the head and neck; a helmet. His casque overshadowed with brilliant plumes. Prescott. 
To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleing. 
A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees) of many species, most of which have purgative qualities. The leaves of several species furnish the senna used in medicine. 
To stereotype or electrotype. 
To turn the head of a vessel around from the wind in getting under weigh. Weigh anchor, cast to starboard. Totten. 
3d pres. of Cast, for Casteth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A flight or a couple or set of hawks let go at one time from the hand. Grabb. As when a cast of falcons make their flight. Spenser. 
A goveror or warden of a castle. 
One who castigates or corrects. 
To move the castle to the square next to king, and then the king around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purpose of covering the king. 
A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver. 
See Caster, a small wheel. 
the northernmost of the two bright stars in the constellation Gemini, the other being Pollux. 
One who receives relief for a night in a parish to which he does not belong; a vagrant. 
An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination of circumstances; a case; an act of God. See the Note under Accident. Casus belli, an event or combination of events which is a cause war, or may be alleged as a justification of war. -- Casus fortuitus, an accident against which due prudence could not have provided. See Act of God, under Act. -- Casus omissus, a case not provided for by the statute. 
An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx. The domestic cat is Felis domestica. The European wild cat (Felis catus) is much larger than the domestic cat. In the United States the name wild cat is commonly applied to the bay lynx (Lynx rufus) See Wild cat, and Tiger cat. 
To bring to the cathead; as, to cat an anchor. See Anchor. Totten. 
The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as a prefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposed to, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh. It sometimes drops the final vowel, as in catoptric; and is sometimes changed to cath, as in cathartic, catholic. 
Passing opportunities seized; snatches. It has been writ by catches with many intervals. Locke. 
Food. [Obs.] See Cates. 
Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, or income. "For loss of catel may recovered be, But loss of tyme shendeth us," quod he. Chaucer. 
A chain or series of things connected with each other. I have . . . in no case sought to construct those catenæ of games, which it seems now the fashion of commentators to link together. C. J. Ellicott. 
A provider; a purveyor; a caterer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The four of cards or dice. 
To cut diagonally. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
The place where provisions are deposited. [Obs.] 
Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food; delicacies; dainties. Shak. Cates for which Apicius could not pay. Shurchill. Choicest cates and the fiagon's best spilth. R. Browning. 
See catherine wheel. 
China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have been introduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar name for North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.) Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay. Tennyson. 
An electro-positive substance, which in electro-decomposition is evolved at the cathode; -- opposed to anion. Faraday. 
An ament; a species of inflorescence, consisting of a slender axis with many unisexual apetalous flowers along its sides, as in the willow and poplar, and (as to the staminate flowers) in the chestnut, oak, hickory, etc. -- so called from its resemblance to a cat's tail. See Illust. of Ament. 
A base fellow; a rogue; a cheat. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Same as Catchup, and Ketchup. 
Quadrupeds of the Bovine family; sometimes, also, including all domestic quadrupeds, as sheep, goats, horses, mules, asses, and swine. Belted cattle, Black cattle. See under Belted, Black. -- Cattle guard, a trench under a railroad track and alongside a crossing (as of a public highway). It is intended to prevent cattle from getting upon the track. -- cattle louse (Zoöl.), any species of louse infecting cattle. There are several species. The Hæmatatopinus eurysternus and H. vituli are common species which suck blood; Trichodectes scalaris eats the hair. -- Cattle plague, the rinderpest; called also Russian cattle plague. -- Cattle range, or Cattle run, an open space through which cattle may run or range. [U. S.] Bartlett. -- Cattle show, an exhibition of domestic animals with prizes for the encouragement of stock breeding; -- usually accompanied with the exhibition of other agricultural and domestic products and of implements. 
An East Indian Weight of 11/3 pounds. 
A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of persons belonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or to select delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regarding measures of party policy; a political primary meeting. This day learned that the caucus club meets, at certain times, in the garret of Tom Dawes, the adjutant of the Boston regiment. John Adams's Diary [Feb. , 1763]. 
To hold, or meet in, a caucus or caucuses. 
Backwards; toward the tail or posterior part. 
Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a tail; having a tail-like appendage. The male widow-bird, remarkable for his caudal plumes. Darwin. Caudal fin (Zoöl.), the terminal fin (or "tail") of a fish. 
The sterm of a tree., esp. a sterm without a branch, as of a palm or a tree fern; also, the pernnial rootstock of an herbaceous plant. 
A kind of warm drink for sick persons, being a mixture of wine with eggs, bread, sugar, and spices. 
A chest with holes for keeping fish alive in water. Philips. 
A gung of slaves. Same as Coffle. 
f Catch. 
The fold of membrane loaded with fat, which covers more or less of the intestines in mammals; the great omentum See Omentum. The caul serves for warming of the lower belly. Ray. 
An herbaceous or woody stem which bears leaves, and may bear flowers. 
See Calk. 
Great heat, as of the body in fever. 
Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a cause or causes; expressing a cause; causative. Causal propositions are where two propositions are joined by causal words. Watts. 
A causal word or form of speech. Anglo-Saxon drencan to drench, causal of Anglo-Saxon drincan to drink. Skeat. 
A suit or action in court; any legal process by which a party endeavors to obtain his claim, or what he regards as his right; case; ground of action. 
To effect as an agent; to produce; to be the occasion of; to bring about; to bring into existence; to make; -- usually followed by an infinitive, sometimes by that with a finite verb. I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days. Gen. vii. 4. Cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans. Col. iv. 16. 
To assign or show cause; to give a reason; to make excuse. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Abbreviation of Because. B. Jonson. 
One who or that which causes. 
A hot iron for searing or cauterizing. Minsheu. 
To make hollow; to scoop out. [Obs.] The mouldred earth cav'd the banke. Spenser. 
To fall in or down; as, the sand bank caved. Hence (Slang), to retreat from a position; to give way; to yield in a disputed matter. To cave in. Etym: [Flem. inkalven.] (a) To fall in and leave a hollow, as earth on the side of a well or pit. (b) To submit; to yield. [Slang] H. Kingsley. 
A notice given by an interested party to some officer not to do a certain act until the party is heard in opposition; as, a caveat entered in a probate court to stop the proving of a will or the taking out of letters of administration, etc. Bouvier. 
A large, deep, hollow place in the earth; a large cave. 
To raise captious and frivolous objections; to find fault without good reason. You do not well in obstinacy To cavil in the course of this contract. Shak. 
To cavil at. [Obs.] Milton. 
A captious or frivolous objection. All the cavils of prejudice and unbelief. Shak. 
A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate their aproach to a place. Farrow. 
Cavo-rilievo. 
To prance ostentatiously; -- said of a horse or his rider. [Local slang U. S.] 
A rodent of the genera cavia and Dolichotis, as the guinea pig (Cavia cabaya). Cavies are natives of South America. Water cavy (Zoöl.), The capybara. 
To cry like a crow, rook, or raven. Rising and cawing at the gun's report. Shak. 
The cry made by the crow, rook, or raven. 
An opaque, compact variety of barite, or heavy spar. [Also written cauk.] 
See Calker. 
Of or pertaining to cawk; like cawk. 
A kind of wig. [Obs.] Lamb. 
Any book printed by William Caxton, the first English printer. Hansard. 
See Key, a ledge. 
The south America alligator. See Alligator. [Sometimes written caiman.] 
A small island or ledge of rock in the water; a key. [Sp. Am.] 
An Indian pony. [Northw. U. S.] 
To put a stop to; to bring to an end. But he, her fears to cease Sent down the meek-eyed peace. Milton. Cease, then, this impious rage. Milton 
Extinction. [Obs.] Shak. 
Blindness. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 
The name of several evergreen trees. The wood is remarkable for its durability and fragrant odor. 
Of or pertaining to cedar. 
Of or pertaining to the cedar or its wood. [R.] 
To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede a fortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty. The people must cede to the government some of their natural rights. Jay. 
Properly the citron, a variety of Citrus medica, with large fruits, not acid, and having a high perfume. 
Of the nature of cedar. [R.] 
A scroll; a writing; a schedule. [Obs.] 
The inner planking of a vessel. Camp ceiling. See under Camp. -- Ceiling boards, Thin narrow boards used to ceil with. 
A girdle. [Obs.] 
A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens), of which the blanched leafstalks are used as a salad. 
See Coellac. 
A jar of vessel, or a division of a compound vessel, for holding the exciting fluid of a battery. 
To place or inclosed in a cell. "Celled under ground." [R.] Warner. 
The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, as distinguished from the open porticoes. 
A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surface of the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept. 
Containing a cell or cells. 
A contraction for Violoncello. 
One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited a great part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants at the present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, and the northern shores of France. [Written also Kelt. The letter C was pronounced hard in Celtic languages.] 
A weapon or implement of stone or metal, found in the tumuli, or barrows, of the early Celtic nations. 
Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes, literature, tongue. [Written also Keltic.] 
The language of the Celts. 
The layer of bone investing the root and neck of a tooth; -- called also cementum. Hydraulic cement. See under Hydraulic. 
To become cemented or firmly united; to cohere. S. Sharp. 
To perfume with odors from burning gums and spices. The Salii sing and cense his altars round. Dryden. 
To burn or scatter incense. 
A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned. 
One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of the number and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office of inspector of morals and conduct. 
A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, for the purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in five years. 
Rate by the hundred; percentage. 
A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in many parts of the United States a Hundredweight. 
Relating to a hundred. Cental system, the method of buying and selling by the cental, or hundredweight. 
A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault or arch are supported in position util the work becomes self-supporting. 
A literary or a musical composition formed by selections from different authors disposed in a new order. 
See Center. 
See Sentry. [Obs.] Gray. 
A freeman of the lowest class; one not a thane or of the servile classes; a churl. 
Beebread. 
An unctuous preparation for external application, of a consistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster, so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat, but does not melt when applied to the skin. 
Of or pertaining to the tail. 
See Cercopod. 
The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey, parrots, and some other birds. See Beak. 
To wax; to cover or close with wax. Wiseman. 
Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for their edible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.), or to their seeds or grain. 
Any grass cultivated for its edible grain, or the grain itself; -- usually in the plural. 
The daughter of Saturn and Ops or Rhea, the goddess of corn and tillage. 
A genus of plants of the Cactus family. They are natives of America, from California to Chili. 
Cerium oxide, CeO2, a white infusible substance constituting about one per cent of the material of the common incandescent mantle. 
Same as Cerial. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork; sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble in alcohol. Watts. 
One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross strokes at the top and bottom of letters. [Spelt also seriph.] Savage. 
Cherry-colored; a light bright red; --- applied to textile fabrics, especially silk. 
A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiïdæ; -- so called from its hornlike form. 
A mineral of a brownish of cherry-red color, commonly massive. It is a hydrous silicate of cerium and allied metals. 
A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite, allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce. Atomic weight 141.5. It resembles iron in color and luster, but is soft, and both malleable and ductile. It tarnishes readily in the air. 
A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genus Scomberomorus. Two species are found in the West Indies and less commonly on the Atlantic coast of the United States, -- the common cero (Scomberomorus caballa), called also kingfish, and spotted, or king, cero (S. regalis). 
That part of the baths and gymnasia in which bathers and wrestlers anointed themselves. 
A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound with hide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc. 
See Cerate. 
A species of oak (Quercus cerris) native in the Orient and southern Europe; -- called also bitter oak and Turkey oak. 
Certainly; in truth; verily. [Archaic] Certes it great pity was to see Him his nobility so foul deface. Spenser. 
Blue; cerulean. [Obs.] Dyer. 
The native carbonate of lead. 
The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of the womb. See Illust. of Bird. 
A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other allied species. 
A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compounds obtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc. 
To rate; to tax; to assess. Spenser. 
To cease; to neglect. [Obs.] Spenser. 
a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, for two years. 
One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service by which he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ of cessavit. See Cessavit. Cowell. 
An assessor. [Obs.] 
A woman's girdle; a cestus. [R.] Collins. 
A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus) which gave the wearer the power of exciting love. 
A covering for the hands of boxers, made of leather bands, and often loaded with lead or iron. 
See Cæsura. 
One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea. 
An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtained from spermaceti. 
Of or pertaining to a whale. 
A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part of spermaceti. 
A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in a series of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derived from spermaceti. 
Tea; -- the Chinese (Mandarin) name, used generally in early works of travel, and now for a kind of rolled tea used in Central Asia. 
The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus). 
See 3d Chase, n., 3. 
To pursue. See Chase v. t. 
A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); -- called also ursine baboon. 
See Shad. [Obs.] 
To rub; to come together so as to wear by rubbing; to wear by friction. Made its great boughs chafe together. Longfellow. The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores. Shak. 
A kind of beetle; the cockchafer. The name is also applied to other species; as, the rose chafer. 
The scales or bracts on the receptacle, which subtend each flower in the heads of many Compositæ, as the sunflower. Gray. Chaff cutter, a machine for cutting, up straw, etc., into "chaff" for the use of cattle. 
To use light, idle lagnguage by way of fun or ridicule; to banter. 
To make fun of; to turn into ridicule by addressing in ironical or bantering language; to quiz. Morgan saw that his master was chaffing him. Thackeray. A dozen honest fellows . . . chaffed each other about their sweethearts. C. Kingsley. 
The act of rubbing, or wearing by friction; making by rubbing. Chafing dish, a dish or vessel for cooking on the table, or for keeping food warm, either by coals, by a lamp, or by hot water; a portable grate for coals. -- Chafing gear (Naut.), any material used to protect sails, rigging, or the like, at points where they are exposed to friction. 
An instrument which consists of links and is used in measuring land. 
To measure with the chain. 
The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body. 
a carriage in general. Cowper. 
The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, or Chauna, chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called also chauna, and faithful kamichi. It is often domesticated and is useful in guarding other poultry. See Kamichi. 
To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid the restraint of the bridle. 
A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. 
A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowish white color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the same composition as common limestone. 
A man who digs chalk. 
Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, a chalky cliff; a chalky taste. 
A bed blanket. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To chew. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Sir T. More. 
The sovereign prince of Tartary; -- now usually written khan. Shak. 
The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora. 
To bite or chew impatiently. They began . . . irefully to champ upon the bit. Hooker. 
Probability. 
To happen, come, or arrive, without design or expectation. "Things that chance daily." Robynson (More's Utopia). If a bird's nest chance to be before thee. Deut. xxii. 6. I chanced on this letter. Shak. 
Happening by chance; casual. 
By chance; perchance. Gray. 
A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; a building appropriated for mercantile transactions. [Colloq. for Exchange.] 
The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of several species of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinella pyrum. Called also chank chell. 
To sing or recite after the manner of a chant, or to a tune called a chant. 
To sing, as in reciting a chant. To chant (or chaunt) horses, to sing their praise; to overpraise; to cheat in selling. See Chaunter. Thackeray. 
A short and simple melody, divided into two parts by double bars, to which unmetrical psalms, etc., are sung or recited. It is the most ancient form of choral music. 
Resembling chaos; confused. 
To bargain; to buy. [Obs.] 
A cap of maintenance. See Maintenance. Chapeau bras ( Etym: [F. chapeau hat + bras arm], a hat so made that it can be compressed and carried under the arm without injury. Such hats were particularly worn on dress occasions by gentlemen in the 18th century. A chapeau bras is now worn in the United States army by general and staff officers. 
Furnished with a chape or chapes. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To cause (a ship taken aback in a light breeze) so to turn or make a circuit as to recover, without bracing the yards, the same tack on which she had been sailing. 
Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open. 
The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap. "Open your chaps again." Shak. 
A car; a chariot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Work done by the day; a single job, or task; a chore. [Written also chare.] [Eng.] When thou hast done this chare, I give thee leave To play till doomsday. Shak. 
A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems and whorled branches. They flourish in wet places. 
A narrow street. [Prov. Eng.] 
A chore; to chore; to do. See Char. 
To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to add to or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or. 
A soft of plaster or ointment. 
Charcoal; a cinder. [Obs.] DeFoe. 
To burn to a coal; to char. [Obs.] 
A fruitful field. Libanus shall be turned into charmel, and charmel shall be esteemed as a forest. Isa. xxix. 17 (Douay version). 
The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry the souls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions. Shak. 
See 1st Char. 
See Charge, n., 17. 
Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities. 
To lay down in a chart; to map; to delineate; as, to chart a coast. 
Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery. 
The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy, as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814. 
Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift; saving; frugal. His rising reputation made him more chary of his fame. Jeffrey. 
To give chase; to hunt; as, to chase around after a doctor. [Colloq.] 
A division of the floor of a gallery, marked by a figure or otherwise; the spot where a ball falls, and between which and the dedans the adversary must drive his ball in order to gain a point. Chase gun (Naut.), a cannon placed at the bow or stern of an armed vessel, and used when pursuing an enemy, or in defending the vessel when pursued. -- Chase port (Naut.), a porthole from which a chase gun is fired. -- Stern chase (Naut.), a chase in which the pursuing vessel follows directly in the wake of the vessel pursued. 
The part of a cannon from the reënforce or the trunnions to the swell of the muzzle. See Cannon. 
Same as Chase gun, esp. in terms bow chaser and stern chaser. See under Bow, Stern. 
A tool with several points, used for cutting or finishing screw threads, either external or internal, on work revolving in a lathe. 
Having gaps or a chasm. [R.] 
Of or pertaining to a chasm; abounding in chasms. Carlyle. They cross the chasmy torrent's foam-lit bed. Wordsworth. 
A movement in dancing, as across or to the right or left. 
To make the movement called chassé; as, all chassé; chassé to the right or left. 
to chasten. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In a chaste manner; with purity. 
To talk in a light and familiar manner; to converse without form or ceremony; to gossip. Shak. To chat a while on their adventures. Dryden. 
To talk of. [Obs.] 
A bird of the genus Icteria, allied to the warblers, in America. The best known species are the yelow-breasted chat (I. viridis), and the long chat (I. longicauda). In Europe the name is given to several birds of the family Saxicolidæ, as the stonechat, and whinchat. Bush chat. (Zoöl.) See under Bush. 
Small stones with ore. Chat potatoes, small potatoes, such as are given to swine. [Local.] 
A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis). 
Given to light, familiar talk; talkative. Lady M. W. Montagu. 
A porous earthen pot used in India for cooling water, etc. 
A gap. [Obs.] Colgrave. 
To open; to yawn. [Obs.] O, chaun thy breast. Marston. 
See Chant. 
a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus). 
The jaw. [Obs.] Spenser. Chaw bacon, a rustic; a bumpkin; a lout. (Law) -- Chaw tooth, a grinder. (Law) 
A bargain; a purchase; cheapness. [Obs.] The sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap at the dearest chandler's in Europe. Shak. 
Cheaply. Milton. 
To buy; to bargain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Cheer. 
A troublesome grass, growing as a weed in grain fields; -- called also chess. See Chess. 
To practice fraud or trickery; as, to cheat at cards. 
Wheat, or bread made from wheat. [Obs.] Drayton. Their purest cheat, Thrice bolted, kneaded, and subdued in paste. Chapman. 
See Chebacco. 
A small American bird (Empidonax minimus); the least flycatcher. 
A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such a menace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it were any other piece, expose it to immediate capture. A king so menaced is said to be in check, and must be made safe at the next move. 
To make a move which puts an adversary's piece, esp. his king, in check; to put in check. 
To make a stop; to pause; -- with at. The mind, once jaded by an attempt above its power, either is disabled for the future, or else checks at any vigorous undertaking ever after. Locke. 
Checkered; designed in checks. 
Divided into small alternating squares of two tinctures; -- said of the field or of an armorial bearing. [Written also checquy, cheguy.] 
Those pieces of a machine, or of any timber, or stone work, which form corresponding sides, or which are similar and in pair; as, the cheeks (jaws) of a vise; the cheeks of a gun carriage, etc. 
To be impudent or saucy to. [Slang.] 
a Brazen-faced; impudent; bold. [Slang.] 
To chirp, as a young bird. 
To give expression to in a chirping tone. Cheep and twitter twenty million loves. Tennyson. 
A chirp, peep, or squeak, as of a young bird or mousse. 
One who cheers; one who, or that which, gladdens. "Thou cheerer of our days." Wotton. "Prime cheerer, light." Thomson. 
A thin, loosewoven cotton cloth, such as is used in pressing cheese curds. 
Having the nature, qualities, taste, form, consistency, or appearance of cheese. 
Same as Chief. 
The pincherlike claw of Crustacea and Arachnida. 
A claw. See Chela. [Obs.] 
A solution of chloride of line. 
Chemical. Blackw. Mag. 
A chinese reed instrument, with tubes, blown by the mouth. 
See Check. 
Same as Checky. 
See Cherif. 
A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes the plum) bearing a fleshy drupe with a bony stone; (a) The common garden cherry (Prunus Cerasus), of which several hundred varieties are cultivated for the fruit, some of which are, the begarreau, blackheart, black Tartarian, oxheart, morelle or morello, May-duke (corrupted from Médoc in France). (b) The wild cherry; as, prunus serotina (wild black cherry), valued for its timber; P. Virginiana (choke cherry), an American shrub which bears astringent fruit; P. avium and P. Padus, European trees (bird cherry). 
Like a red cherry in color; ruddy; blooming; as, a cherry lip; cherry cheeks. 
An impure, massive, flintlike quartz or hornstone, of a dull color. 
Like chert; containing chert; flinty. 
Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic. "The cherubic host." Milton. 
To make a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to chirp. See Chirrup. "Cheruping birds." Drayton. 
To excite or urge on by making a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to cherup to. See Chirrup. He cherups brisk ear-erecting steed. Cowper. 
A short, sharp, cheerful noise; a chirp; a chirrup; as, the cherup of a cricket. 
pret. of Chese. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To choose [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with two differently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set. Each player has a king, a queen, two bishops, two knights, two castles or rooks, and eight pawns. 
A species of brome grass (Bromus secalinus) which is a troublesome weed in wheat flelds, and is often erroneously regarded as degenerate or changed wheat; it bears a very slight resemblance to oats, and if reaped and ground up with wheat, so as to be used for food, is said to produce narcotic effects; -- called also cheat and Willard's bromus. [U. S.] 
A case in which certain goods, as tea, opium, etc., are transported; hence, the quantity which such a case contains. 
Strife; contention; controversy. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 
See Cheetah. 
A horse; hence, a support or frame. Cheval glass, a mirror swinging in a frame, and large enough to reflect the full leght figure. 
To come to an issue; to turn out; to succed; as, to cheve well in a enterprise. [Prov. or Obs.] Holland. 
A river fish; the chub. Sir T. Browne. 
The extreme end of the chancel or choir; properly the round or polygonal part. 
See Chivy, v. t. [Slang, Eng.] One poor fellow was chevied about among the casks in the storm for ten minutes. London Times. 
To perform the action of biting and grinding with the teeth; to ruminate; to meditate. old politicians chew wisdom past. Pope. 
That which is chewed; that which is held in the mouth at once; a cud. [Law] 
One who chews. 
A kind of meat pie. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to Chios, an island in the Ægean Sea. Chian earth, a dense, compact kind of earth, from Chios, used anciently as an astringent and a cosmetic. -- Chian turpentine, a fragrant, almost transparent turpentine, obtained from the Pistacia Terebinthus. 
Good form; style. [Slang] 
A red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, used by some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin. 
The chick-pea. 
See Chica. 
To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate. Chalmers. 
A chicken; a fowl; also, a trivial term of endearment for a child. 
A chicken; -- used as a diminutive or pet name, especially in calling fowls. 
A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with bright blue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; also cultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory; wild endive. See Endive. 
A continuous noise or murmur. The chide of streams. Thomson. 
One who chides or quarrels. Shak. 
The upper third part of the field. It is supposed to be composed of the dexter, sinister, and middle chiefs. In chief. (a) At the head; as, a commander in chief. (b) (Eng. Law) From the king, or sovereign; as, tenure in chief, tenure directly from the king. 
A tribute by the head; a capitation tax. [Written also chevage and chivage.] [Obs.] 
See Cheve, v. i. [Obs.] 
To give birth; to produce young. This queen Genissa childing died. Warner. It chanced within two days they childed both. Latimer. 
A cognomen formerly prefixed to his name by the oldest son, until he succeeded to his ancestral titles, or was knighted; as, Childe Roland. 
A kind of red pepper. See Capsicum [Written also chilli and chile.] 
A sensation of cold with convulsive shaking of the body, pinched face, pale skin, and blue lips, caused by undue cooling of the body or by nervous excitement, or forming the precursor of some constitutional disturbance, as of a fever. 
To produce, by sudden cooling, a change of crystallization at or near the surface of, so as to increase the hardness; said of cast iron. 
To become surface-hardened by sudden cooling while solidifying; as, some kinds of cast iron chill to a greater depth than others. 
See Chili. 
Moderately cold; cold and raw or damp so as to cause shivering; causing or feeling a disagreeable sensation of cold, or a shivering. 
The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3. [Written also hime.] 
Chime. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Chine, n., 3. 
One who chimes. 
The exterior or under surface embraced between the branches of the lower jaw bone, in birds. 
See Quinaldine. 
The bedbug (Cimex lectularius). 
A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chine in the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep. [Prov. Eng.] "The cottage in a chine." J. Ingelow. 
Of or pertaining to China; peculiar to China. Chinese paper. See India paper, under India. -- Chinese wax, a snowy-wgite, waxlike substance brought from China. It is the bleached secretion of certain insects of the family Coccidæ especially Coccus Sinensis. 
A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length than breadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall. Through one cloudless chink, in a black, stormy sky. Shines out the dewy morning star. Macaulay. 
To crack; to open. 
To cause to make a sharp metallic sound, as coins, small pieces of metal, etc., by bringing them into collision with each other. Pope. 
To make a slight, sharp, metallic sound, as by the collision of little pieces of money, or other small sonorous bodies. Arbuthnot. 
Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts. Dryden. 
To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks) with a chisel , the point of a knife, or a chinsing iron; to calk slightly. Chinsing iron, a light calking iron. 
Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in a number of different colors, and often glazed. Swift. 
To break or fly off in small pieces. 
The triangular piece of wood attached to the log line. Buffalo chips. See under Buffalo. -- Chip ax, a small ax for chipping timber into shape. -- Chip bonnet, Chip hat, a bonnet or a hat made of Chip. See Chip, n., 3. -- A chip off the old block, a child who resembles either of his parents. [Colloq.] Milton.- Potato chips, Saratoga chips, thin slices of raw potato fried crisp. 
Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless. 
A small American sparrow (Spizella socialis), very common near dwelling; -- also called chipping bird and chipping sparrow, from its simple note. 
A ship's carpenter. [Cant.] 
To cheer; to enliven; as, to chirk one up. [Colloq. New Eng. ] 
Lively; cheerful; in good spirits. [Colloq. New Eng.] 
To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird. [Obs.] Huloet. 
To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets. 
A short, sharp note, as of a bird or insect. "The chirp of flitting bird." Bryant. 
To coo, as a pigeon. [Obs.] 
A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used in dressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; -- usually driven by a mallet or hammer. Cold chisel. See under Cold, a. 
The ninth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of November with a part of December. 
To shoot out; to sprout. I have known barley chit in seven hours after it had been thrown forth. Mortimer. 
Chideth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other invertebrates; entomolin. 
One of a group of gastropod mollusks, with a shell composed of eight movable dorsal plates. See Polyplacophora. 
A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A filament of a stamen. [Obs.] 
A perennial plant (Allium Schoenoprasum), allied to the onion. The young leaves are used in omelets, etc. [Written also cive.] 
To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens. 
See Choke. 
To stop or fasten, as with a wedge, or block; to scotch; as, to chock a wheel or cask. 
To fill up, as a cavity. "The woodwork . . . exactly chocketh into joints." Fuller. 
A heavy casting of metal, usually fixed near the gunwale. It has two short horn-shaped arms curving inward, between which ropes or hawsers may pass for towing, mooring, etc. 
Entirely; quite; as, chock home; chock aft. 
To encounter. [Obs.] 
An encounter. [Obs.] 
the old imp. of chide. See Chide. 
Making choices; fickle. [Obs.] His choiceful sense with every change doth fit. Spenser. 
The chancel. Choir organ (Mus.), one of the three or five distinct organs included in the full organ, each separable from the rest, but all controlled by one performer; a portion of the full organ, complete in itself, and more practicable for ordinary service and in the accompanying of the vocal choir. -- Choir screen, Choir wall (Arch.), a screen or low wall separating the choir from the aisles. -- Choir service, the service of singing performed by the choir. T. Warton. 
The small apple-shaped or pear-shaped fruit of an American shrub (Pyrus arbutifolia) growing in damp thickets; also, the shrub. 
A strap leading from the bellyband to the lower part of the collar, to keep the collar in place. 
One of several diseases affecting the digestive and intestinal tract and more or less dangerous to life, esp. the one commonly called Asiatic cholera. Asiatic cholera, a malignant and rapidly fatal disease, originating in Asia and frequently epidemic in the more filthy sections of other lands, to which the germ or specific poison may have been carried. It is characterized by diarrhea, rice- water evacuations, vomiting, cramps, pinched expression, and lividity, rapidly passing into a state of collapse, followed by death, or by a stage of reaction of fever. -- Cholera bacillus. See Comma bacillus. -- Cholera infantum, a dangerous summer disease, of infants, caused by hot weather, bad air, or poor milk, and especially fatal in large cities. -- Cholera morbus, a disease characterized by vomiting and purging, with gripings and cramps, usually caused by imprudence in diet or by gastrointestinal disturbance. -- Chicken cholera. See under Chicken. -- Hog cholera. See under Hog. -- Sporadic cholera, a disease somewhat resembling the Asiatic cholera, but originating where it occurs, and rarely becoming epidemic. 
To chew loudly and greedily; to champ. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] Halliwell. 
One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; an elector. Burke. 
To vary or shift suddenly; as, the wind chops about. 
A change; a vicissitude. Marryat. 
To crack. See Chap, v. t. & i. 
A licensed lighter employed in the transportation of goods to and from vessels. [China] S. W. Williams. 
A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain, varying from half a pint to a wine quart. 
See Chopine. 
Rough, with short, tumultuous waves; as, a choppy sea. 
One of two small sticks of wood, ivory, etc., used by the Chinese and Japanese to convey food to the mouth. 
Of or pertaining to a choir or chorus; singing, sung, or adapted to be sung, in chorus or harmony. Choral service, a service of song. 
A hymn tune; a simple sacred tune, sung in unison by the congregation; as, the Lutheran chorals. [Sometimes written chorale.] 
A combination of tones simultaneously performed, producing more or less perfect harmony, as, the common chord. 
To provide with musical chords or strings; to string; to tune. When Jubal struck the chorded shell. Dryden. Even the solitary old pine tree chords his harp. Beecher. 
To accord; to harmonize together; as, this note chords with that. 
A cord. Chorda dorsalis (. Etym: [NL., lit., cord of the back.] (Anat.) See Notochord. 
A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of a household or farm, either within or without doors. [U. S.] 
To do chores. [U. S.] 
A choir or chorus. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
St. Vitus's dance; a disease attended with convulsive twitchings and other involuntary movements of the muscles or limbs. 
See Choreus. 
Of or pertaining to a chorus. I remember a choric ode in the Hecuba. Coleridge. 
A band of singers and dancers. The Grecian tragedy was at first nothing but a chorus of singers. Dryden. 
To sing in chorus; to exclaim simultaneously. W. D. Howells. 
A thing; personal property. Chose in action, a thing of which one has not possession or actual enjoyment, but only a right to it, or a right to demand it by action at law, and which does not exist at the time in specie; a personal right to a thing not reduced to possession, but recoverable by suit at law; as a right to recover money due on a contract, or damages for a tort, which can not be enforced against a reluctant party without suit. -- Chose in possession, a thing in possession, as distinguished from a thing in action. -- Chose local, a thing annexed to a place, as a mill. -- Chose transitory, a thing which is movable. Cowell. Blount. 
imp. & p. p. of Choose. 
Selected from a number; picked out; choice. Seven hundred chosen men left-handed. Judg. xx. 16. 
One who, or that which is the object of choice or special favor. 
One of the royalist insurgents in western France (Brittany, etc.), during and after the French revolution. 
A bird of the Crow family (Fregilus graculus) of Europe. It is of a black color, with a long, slender, curved bill and red legs; -- also called chauk, chauk-daw, chocard, Cornish chough, red-legged crow. The name is also applied to several allied birds, as the Alpine chough. Cornish chough (Her.), a bird represented black, with red feet, and beak; -- called also aylet and sea swallow. 
The Indian four-horned antelope; the chikara. 
See Jowl. Sir W. Scott. 
To cheat, trick, defraud; -- followed by of, or out of; as, to chouse one out of his money. [Colloq.] The undertaker of the afore-cited poesy hath choused your highness. Landor. 
An assessment equal to a fourth part of the revenue. [India] J. Mill. 
A prefecture or district of the second rank in China, or the chief city of such a district; -- often part of the name of a city, as in Foochow. 
A whisk to keep off files, used in the East Indies. Malcom. 
Of or pertaining to or used in chrism. 
The Anointed; an appellation given to Jesus, the Savior. It is synonymous with the Hebrew Messiah. 
Same as Chromium. Chrome alum (Chem.), a dark violet substance, (SO4)3Cr2.K2SO4.24H2O, analogous to, and crystallizing like, common alum. It is regarded as a double sulphate of chromium and potassium. -- Chrome green (a) The green oxide of chromium, Cr2O3, used in enamel painting, and glass staining. (b) A pigment made by mixing chrome yellow with Prussian blue. -- Chrome red, a beautiful red pigment originally prepared from the basic chromate of lead, but now made from red oxide of lead. -- Chrome yellow, a brilliant yellow pigment, PbCrO4, used by painters. 
A chromolithograph. 
A species to fresh-water fish of the Cyprinidæ or Carp family. The common European species is Leuciscus cephalus; the cheven. In America the name is applied to various fishes of the same family, of the genera Semotilus, Squalius, Ceratichthys, etc., and locally to several very different fishes, as the tautog, black bass, etc. Chub mackerel (Zoöl.), a species of mackerel (Scomber colias) in some years found in abundance on the Atlantic coast, but absent in others; -- called also bull mackerel, thimble-eye, and big-eye mackerel. -- Chub sucker (Zoöl.), a fresh-water fish of the United States (Erimyzon sucetta); -- called also creekfish. 
Like a chub; plump, short, and thick. "Chubby faces." I. Taylor. 
To call, as a hen her chickens. Dryden. 
To place in a chuck, or hold by means of a chuck, as in turning; to bore or turn (a hole) in a revolving piece held in a chuck. 
A contrivance or machine fixed to the mandrel of a lathe, for holding a tool or the material to be operated upon. 
A game played with chucks, in which one or more are tossed up and caught; jackstones. [Scot.] 
A piece of the backbone of an animal, from between the neck and the collar bone, with the adjoining parts, cut for cooking; as, a chuck steak; a chuck roast. [Colloq.] 
To champ; to bite. [Obs.] A. Stafford. 
Minced meat. [Obs.] Bacon. 
A sedgelike plant (Cyperus esculentus) producing edible tubers, native about the Mediterranean, now cultivated in many regions; the earth almond. 
A coarse or stupid fellow. Shak. 
Stupid; churlish. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
The fragrant flowers of the Chloranthus inconspicuus, used in China for perfuming tea. 
A roommate, especially in a college or university; an old and intimate friend. 
To occupy a chamber with another; as, to chum together at college. [U. S.] 
Chopped pieces of fish used as bait. [U. S.] 
A short, thick, heavy piece of wood. Morton. Chump end, the thick end; as, the chump end of a joint of meat. Dickens. 
Quicklime; also, plaster or mortar. [India] Whitworth. 
A short, thick piece of anything. [Colloq. U. S. & Prov. Eng.] 
Short and thick. [U. S.] Kane. 
To bless according to a prescribed form, or to unite with in publicly returning thanks in church, as after deliverance from the dangers of childbirth; as, the churching of women. 
Churlish; rough; selfish. [Obs.] Ford. 
Rude; churlish; violent. Longfellow. 
A vessel in which milk or cream is stirred, beaten, or otherwise agitated (as by a plunging or revolving dasher) in order to separete the oily globules from the other parts, and obtain butter. 
To perform the operation of churning. 
A vibrant or whirring noise such as that made by some insects, as the cockchafer, or by some birds, as the nightjar, the partridge, etc. 
To make a churr, as a cockchafer. 
To utter by churring. 
See Choose. [Obs.] 
A warm or spicy condiment or pickle made in India, compounded of various vegetable substances, sweets, acids, etc. 
A milky fluid containing the fatty matter of the food in a state of emulsion, or fine mechanical division; formed from chyme by the action of the intestinal juices. It is absorbed by the lacteals, and conveyed into the blood by the thoracic duct. 
The pulpy mass of semi-digested food in the small intestines just after its passage from the stomach. It is separated in the intestines into chyle and excrement. See Chyle. 
A perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum), sometimes called Welsh onion. Its fistular leaves areused in cookery. 
Any species of the genus Cicada. They are large hemipterous insects, with nearly transparent wings. The male makes a shrill sound by pecular organs in the under side of the abdomen, consisting of a pair of stretched membranes, acted upon by powerful muscles. A noted American species (C. septendecim) is called the seventeen year locust. Another common species is the dogday cicada. 
A cicada. See Cicada. "At eve a dry cicala sung." Tennison. 
Any one of several umbelliferous plants, of the genera Myrrhis, Osmorrhiza, etc. 
Pica type; -- so called by French printers. 
a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the water hemlock or cowbane is best known. 
The expressed juice of apples. It is used as a beverage, for making vinegar, and for other purposes. 
A wax candle used in religous rites. 
A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking. Cigar fish (Zoöl.), a fish (Decapterus punctatus), allied to the mackerel, found on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. 
The eyelashes. 
A kind of haircloth undergarment. Southey. 
See Cilia. 
See Sill., n. a foundation. 
A kind of molding. See Cyma. 
See Simar. 
A kind of confectionery or cake. [Obs.] Nares. 
A fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if to strengthen it. [Written also cimia.] 
A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the best known example. See Bedbug. 
See Cimbia. 
The bedbug. [Obs.] Wright. 
A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru and adjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producing a medicinal bark of great value. 
Resembling, or composed of, cinders; full of cinders. 
A girth. [R.] See Surcingle. 
Five; the number five in dice or cards. 
See Center. 
The group of Thysanura which includes Lepisma and allied forms; the bristletails. See Bristletail, and Lepisma. 
See Scion. The cion overruleth the stock; and the stock is but passive, and giveth aliment, but no motion, to the graft. Bacon. 
A character [0] which, standing by itself, expresses nothing, but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases its value tenfold. 
Of the nature of a cipher; of no weight or influence. "Twelve cipher bishops." Milton. 
To use figures in a mathematical process; to do sums in arithmetic. "T was certain he could write and cipher too. Goldsmith. 
One who ciphers. 
A small, low pillar, square or round, commonly having an inscription, used by the ancients for various purposes, as for indicating the distances of places, for a landmark, for sepulchral inscriptions, etc. Gwilt. 
An amphitheatrical circle for sports; a circus. [R.] T. Warton. 
A district, or part of a province. See Sircar. [India] 
An instrument of observation, the graduated limb of which consists of an entire circle. 
To move circularly; to form a circle; to circulate. Thy name shall circle round the gaping through. Byron. 
A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats of wood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another, and divided lengthwise through the middle by a barrier around which the track or course was laid out. It was used for chariot races, games, and public shows. 
Having cirri along the margin of a part or organ. 
See Cirrus. 
A tendril or clasper. 
The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi), valuable food fish of the Great Lakes of North America. The name is also applied to C. Hoyi, a related species of Lake Michigan. 
A box or chest. Specifically: (a) A bronze receptacle, round or oval, frequently decorated with engravings on the sides and cover, and with feet, handles, etc., of decorative castings. (b) A cinerary urn. See Illustration in Appendix. 
Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted. 
See Cystic. 
A citizen; an inhabitant of a city; a pert townsman; -- used contemptuously. "Insulted as a cit". Johnson Which past endurance sting the tender cit. Emerson. 
A reference to decided cases, or books of authority, to prove a point in law. 
To notify of a proceeding in court. Abbot 
One who cites. 
A city woman [R.] 
Aping, or having, the manners of a city. 
A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer. [Obs.] 
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as, citric acid. Citric acid (Chem.), an organic acid, C3H4OH.(CO2H)3, extracted from lemons, currants, gooseberies, etc., as a white crystalline substance, having a pleasant sour taste. 
A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantly aromatic. The thick rind, when candied, is the citron of commerce. 
A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc., originally natives of southern Asia. 
Of or pertaining to a city. Shak. City council. See under Council. -- City court, The municipal court of a city. [U. S.] -- City ward, a watchman, or the collective watchmen, of a city. [Obs.] Fairfax. 
Same as Chive. 
The animal that produces civet (Viverra civetta); -- called also civet cat. It is carnivorous, from two to three feet long, and of a brownish gray color, with transverse black bands and spots on the body and tail. It is a native of northern Africa and of Asia. The name is also applied to other species. 
To scent or perfume with civet. Cowper 
Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating to man as a member of society, or to civil affairs. Civic crown (Rom. Antiq.), a crown or garland of oak leaves and acorns, bestowed on a soldier who had saved the life of a citizen in battle. 
The science of civil government. 
A civilian. [R.] Warbur 
In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges; politely; courteously; in a well bred manner. 
State of citizenship. [R.] Dyer. 
To clip with scissors. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
Scissors. [Obs.] Swift. 
Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size. 
To clothe. [Obs.] Holland. 
imp. & p. p. of Clothe. 
Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings. 
See Clake. 
To be entitled to anything; to deduce a right or title; to have a claim. We must know how the first ruler, from whom any one claims, came by his authority. Locke. 
Capable of being claimed. 
A small inclosed pond used for gathering and greening oysters. 
A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that are edible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria), the quahog or round clam (Venus mercenaria), the sea clam or hen clam (Spisula solidissima), and other species of the United States. The name is said to have been given originally to the Tridacna gigas, a huge East Indian bivalve. You shall scarce find any bay or shallow shore, or cove of sand, where you may not take many clampes, or lobsters, or both, at your pleasure. Capt. John Smith (1616). Clams, or clamps, is a shellfish not much unlike a coclke; it lieth under the sand. Wood (1634). 
To clog, as with glutinous or viscous matter. A swarm of wasps got into a honey pot, and there they cloyed and clammed Themselves till there was no getting out again. L'Estrange. 
To be moist or glutinous; to stick; to adhere. [R.] Dryden 
Claminess; moisture. [R.] "The clam of death." Carlyle. 
A crash or clangor made by ringing all the bells of a chime at once. Nares. 
To produce, in bell ringing, a clam or clangor; to cause to clang. Nares. 
Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft and sticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a cold perspiration. 
To utter loud sounds or outcries; to vociferate; to complain; to make importunate demands. The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night. Shak. 
A thick plank on the inner part of a ship's side, used to sustuan the ends of beams. 
A heavy footstep; a tramp. 
To tread heavily or clumsily; to clump. The policeman with clamping feet. Thackeray. 
Conducted with secrecy; clandestine; concealed. [Obs.] Not close and clancular, but frank and open. Barrow. 
To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound. The fierce Caretes . . . clanged their sounding arms. Prior. 
To give out a clang; to resound. "Clanging hoofs." Tennyson. 
Qualyty of tone. 
A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallic or other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or less resounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound than clink. But not in chains to pine, His spirit withered with tyeur clank. Byron. 
To cause to sound with a clank; as, the prisoners clank their chains. 
To sound with a clank. 
The nether part of the beak of a hawk. Clap dish. See Clack dish, under Clack, n. -- Clap net, a net for taking birds, made to close or clap together. 
Gonorrhea. 
A bird; the flicker. 
Variant of Clasp [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatrical exhibition. 
A nun of the order of St.Clare. 
The name firat given in England to the red wines of M 
Wine with a mixture of honey and species. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To make a loud or shrill noise. [Obs.] Golding. 
A plant (Salvia sclarea) of the Sage family, used in flavoring soups. Clary water, a composition of clary flowers with brandy, etc., formerly used as a cardiac. 
To strike noisily against or together. 
A change-speed gear in which the gears are changed by sliding endwise. 
Furnished with tendrils. 
One of the sections into which a church or congregation is divided, and which is under the supervision of a class leader. Class of a curve (Math.), the kind of a curve as expressed by the number of tangents that can be drawn from any point to the curve. A circle is of the second class. -- Class meeting (Methodist Church), a meeting of a class under the charge of a class leader, for counsel and relegious instruction. 
To grouped or classed. The genus or famiky under which it classes. Tatham. 
To daub or smear, as with lime; to make or finish in a slipshod way. [Scot.] 
A subordinate portion or a subdivision of a sentence containing a subject and its predicate. 
See Letters clause or close, under Letter. 
imp. of Cleave. [Obs.] 
See Clevis. 
See Clover. Holland. 
Frivolous or nonsensical talk; prattle; chattering. [Scot. & North of Eng.] Emmy found herself entirely at a loss in the midst of their clavers. Thackeray. 
A key; a glossary. 
A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn. 
A mantelpiece. 
A slender appendage or process, formed like a claw, as the base of petals of the pink. Gray. Claw hammer, a hammer with one end of the metallic head cleft for use in extracting nails, etc. -- Claw hammer coat, a dress coat of the swallowtail pattern. [Slang] -- Claw sickness, foot rot, a disease affecting sheep. 
To scrape, scratch, or dig with a claw, or with the hand as a claw. "Clawing [in ash barrels] for bits of coal." W. D. Howells. To claw off (Naut.), to turn to windward and beat, to prevent falling on a lee shore. 
Furnished with claws. N. Grew. 
Earth in general, as representing the elementary particles of the human body; hence, the human body as formed from such particles. I also am formed out of the clay. Job xxxiii. 6. The earth is covered thick with other clay, Which her own clay shall cover. Byron. Bowlder clay. See under Bowlder. -- Brick clay, the common clay, containing some iron, and therefore turning red when burned. -- Clay cold, cold as clay or earth; lifeless; inanimate. -- Clay ironstone, an ore of iron consisting of the oxide or carbonate of iron mixed with clay or sand. -- Clay marl, a whitish, smooth, chalky clay. -- Clay mill, a mill for mixing and tempering clay; a pug mill. -- Clay pit, a pit where clay is dug. -- Clay slate (Min.), argillaceous schist; argillite. -- Fatty clays, clays having a greasy feel; they are chemical compounds of water, silica, and aluminia, as halloysite, bole, etc. -- Fire clay , a variety of clay, entirely free from lime, iron, or an alkali, and therefore infusible, and used for fire brick. -- Porcelain clay, a very pure variety, formed directly from the decomposition of feldspar, and often called kaolin. -- Potter's clay, a tolerably pure kind, free from iron. 
Stupid. [Obs.] Shak. 
Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers, to cover lodgments. [Obs.] 
Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay; like clay. 
Free from ceremonial defilement. 
To render clean; to free from whatever is foul, offensive, or extraneous; to purify; to cleanse. To clean out, to exhaust; to empty; to get away from (one) all his money. [Colloq.] De Quincey. 
Full extent; distance between extreme limits; especially; the distance between the nearest surfaces of two bodies, or the space between walls; as, a room ten feet square in the clear. 
To make exchanges of checks and bills, and settle balances, as is done in a clearing house. 
A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to something in order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc. 
To strengthen with a cleat. 
To part; to open; to crack; to separate; as parts of bodies; as, the ground cleaves by frost. The Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst. Zech. xiv. 4. 
Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of the color of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the first bearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing. Compare Voided. 
See Cléché. 
The upper stratum of fuller's earth. 
Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil. Halliwell. 
A claw. [Holland. 
The redshank. 
To seize; clutch; snatch; catch; pluck. 
A character used in musical notation to determine the position and pitch of the scale as represented on the staff. 
from Cleave. 
Incised nearly to the midrob; as, a cleft leaf. 
A disease in horses; a crack on the band of the pastern. Branchial clefts. See under Branchial. 
A small breeze or horsefly. [North of Eng. & Scot.] Jamieson. 
To starve; to famish. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
See Clinch. 
To call, or name. [Obs.] That other son was cleped Cambalo. Chaucer. 
To make appeal; to cry out. [Obs.] Wandering in woe, and to the heavens on high Cleping for vengeance of this treachery. Mir. for Mag. 
Entitled to, or admitting, the benefit of clergy; as, a clergyable felony. Blackstone. 
A clerk, a clergyman. [R.] Bp. Horsley. 
Same as Clerical. 
A feast for the benefit of the parish clerk. [Eng.] T. Warton. 
Somewhat clever. [R.] 
A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the two ends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of a plow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.; -- called also clavel, clevy. 
To move of draw (a sail or yard) by means of the clew garnets, clew lines, etc.; esp. to draw up the clews of a square sail to the yard. To clew down (Naut.), to force (a yard) down by hauling on the clew lines. -- To clew up (Naut.), to draw (a sail) up to the yard, as for furling. 
A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, or lettering, in relief. Cliché casting, a mode of obtaining an impression from a die or woodcut, or the like, by striking it suddenly upon metal which has been fused and is just becoming solid; also, the casting so obtained. 
To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises), as by gentle striking; to tick. The varnished clock that clicked behind the door. Goldsmith. 
To snatch. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
See Elater. 
Resembling a click; abounding in clicks. "Their strange clicky language." The Century. 
A citizen who put himself under the protection of a man of distinction and influence, who was called his patron. 
A high, steep rock; a precipice. Cliff swallow (Zoöl.), a North American swallow (Petrochelidon lunifrons), which builds its nest against cliffs; the eaves swallow. 
See Clef. [Obs.] 
Having cliffs; broken; craggy. 
A cliff. [Obs.] That gainst the craggy clifts did loudly roar. Spenser. 
Broken; fissured. Climb the Andeclifted side. Grainger. 
A figure of which the parts of a sentence or paragraph are so arranged that each sicceeding one rise "Tribulation worketh patience, patience experience, and experience hope" -- a happy climax. J. D. Forbes. 
To ascend or creep upward by twining about a support, or by attaching itself by tendrills, rootlets, etc., to a support or upright surface. 
To ascend, as by means of the hands and feet, or laboriously or slowly; to mount. 
The act of one who climbs; ascent by climbing. Warburton. 
A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate. Turn we to sutvey, Where rougher climes a nobler race display. Goldsmith. 
To hold fast; to grasp something firmly; to seize or grasp one another. 
A hitch or bend by which a rope is made fast to the ring of an anchor, or the breeching of a ship's gun to the ringbolts. 
To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially by twining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to its support; -- usually followed by to or together. And what hath life for thee That thou shouldst cling to it thus Mrs. Hemans. 
Adherence; attachment; devotion. [R.] A more tenacious cling to worldly respects. Milton. 
Apt to cling; adhesive. [R.] 
One who receives baptism on a sick bed. [Obs.] Hook. 
To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as by striking metallic or other sonorous bodies together. And let me the canakin clink. Shak. 
A slight, sharp, tinkling sound, made by the collision of sonorous bodies. "Clink and fall of swords." Shak. 
The Muse who presided over history. 
A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea), abundant in the Arctic Ocean, constitutes a part of the food of the Greenland whale. It is sometimes incorrectly called Clio. 
To move swiftly; -- usually with indefinite it. Straight flies as chek, and clips it down the wind. Dryden. 
A projecting flange on the upper edge of a horseshoe, turned up so as to embrace the lower part of the hoof; -- called also toe clip and beak. Youatt. 
A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests or for the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in a bad sense. 
To To associate together in a clannish way; to act with others secretly to gain a desired end; to plot; -- used with together. 
The common chamber into which the intestinal, urinary, and generative canals discharge in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and many fishes. 
To cover with, or as with, a cloak; hence, to hide or conceal. Now glooming sadly, so to cloak her matter. Spenser. 
An apparatus used in controlling certain kinds of aëroplanes, and consisting principally of a steering column mounted with a universal joint at the base, which is bellshaped and has attached to it the cables for controlling the wing-warping devices, elevator planes, and the like. 
To ornament with figured work, as the side of a stocking. 
To call, as a hen. See Cluck. [R.] 
A large beetle, esp. the European dung beetle (Scarabæus stercorarius). 
To collect into clods, or into a thick mass; to coagulate; to clot; as, clodded gore. See Clot. Clodded in lumps of clay. G. Fletcher. 
Resembling clods; gross; low; stupid; boorish. Hawthorne. -- Clod"dish*ness, n. 
Consisting of clods; full of clods. 
Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundred weight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in a general sense, of small deductions from the original weight. [Written also clough.] McCulloch. 
The state of being clogged. 
Clogging, or having power to clog. 
See Cloak. [Obs.] 
See Clamp. 
imp. of Cling. [Obs.] 
Having an irregular, convulsive motion. Dunglison. Clonic spasm. (Med.) See under Spasm. 
A series of muscular contractions due to sudden stretching of the muscle, -- a sign of certain neuropathies. 
To close with glutinous matter. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle. "The cloop of a cork wrenched from a bottle." Thackeray. 
A little hoof. 
The interest which one may have in a piece of ground, even though it is not inclosed. Bouvier. 
Uttered with a relatively contracted opening of the mouth, as certain sounds of e and o in French, Italian, and German; -- opposed to open. Close borough. See under Borough. -- Close breeding. See under Breeding. -- Close communion, communion in the Lord's supper, restricted to those who have received baptism by immersion. -- Close corporation, a body or corporation which fills its own vacancies. -- Close fertilization. (Bot.) See Fertilization. -- Close harmony (Mus.), compact harmony, in which the tones composing each chord are not widely distributed over several octaves. -- Close time, a fixed period during which killing game or catching certain fish is prohibited by law. -- Close vowel (Pron.), a vowel which is pronounced with a diminished aperture of the lips, or with contraction of the cavity of the mouth. -- Close to the wind (Naut.), directed as nearly to the point from which the wind blows as it is possible to sail; closehauled; -- said of a vessel. 
Closely united. 
To make close. [R.] 
The last stone in a horizontal course, if of a less size than the others, or a piece of brick finishing a course. Gwilt. 
Closemouthed; silent. "Close-tongued treason." Shak. 
A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis. Crabb. 
The game of ninepins. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulated mass, as of blood; a coagulum. "Clots of pory gore." Addison. Doth bake the egg into clots as if it began to poach. Bacon. 
To concrete, coagulate, or thicken, as soft or fluid matter by evaporation; to become a cot or clod. 
To form into a slimy mass. 
The common burdock; the clotbur. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To wear clothes. [Poetic] Care no more to clothe eat. Shak. 
Full of clots, or clods. "Clotty matter." Harvey. 
To grow cloudy; to become obscure with clouds; -- often used with up. Worthies, away! The scene begins to cloud. Shak. 
An allowance in weighing. See Cloff. 
Clumsy; awkward. [Obs.] Rough-hewn, cloutery verses. E. Phillips. 
imp. of Cleave. Cleft. Spenser. Clove hitch (Naut.) See under Hitch. -- Clove hook (Naut.), an iron two-part hook, with jaws overlapping, used in bending chain sheets to the clews of sails; -- called also clip hook. Knight. 
A cleft; a gap; a ravine; -- rarely used except as part of a proper name; as, Kaaterskill Clove; Stone Clove. 
A very pungent aromatic spice, the unexpanded flower bud of the clove tree (Eugenia, or Caryophullus, aromatica), a native of the Molucca Isles. Clove camphor. (Chem.) See Eugenin. -- Clove gillyflower, Clove pink (Bot.), any fragrant self-colored carnation. 
One of the small bulbs developed in the axils of the scales of a large bulb, as in the case of garlic. Developing, in the axils of its skales, new bulbs, of what gardeners call cloves. Lindley. 
from Cleave, v. t. To show the cloven foot or hoof, to reveal a devilish character, or betray an evil purpose, notwithstanding disguises, -- Satan being represented dramatically and symbolically as having cloven hoofs. 
A plant of differend species of the genus Trifolium; as the common red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare's foot, T. arvense. Clover weevil (Zoöl.) a small weevil (Apion apricans), that destroys the seeds of clover. -- Clover worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Asopia costalis), often very destructive to clover hay. -- In clover, in very pleasant circumstances; fortunate. [Colloq.] - - Sweet clover. See Meliot. 
To act as a clown; -- with it [Obs.] Beclowns it properly indeed. B. Jonson. 
That does not cloy. Shak. 
Any card of the suit of cards having a figure like the trefoil or clover leaf. (pl.) The suit of cards having such figure. 
To throw, or allow to fall, into confusion. To club a battalion implies a temporary inability in the commanding officer to restore any given body of men to their natural front in line or column. Farrow. 
To drift in a current with an anchor out. 
To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen. Ray. 
To call together, or call to follow, as a hen does her chickens. She, poor hen, fond of no second brood, Has clucked three to the wars. Shak. 
The noise or call of a brooding hen. 
A ball of thread; a thread or other means of guidance. Same as Clew. You have wound a goodly clue. Shak. This clue once found unravels all the rest. Pope. Serve as clues to guide us into further knowledge. Locke. 
Silence; hush. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To arrange in a clump or clumps; to cluster; to group. Blackmore. 
To tread clumsily; to clamp. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enabling the questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected by two persons who answer the questions; -- so called because the players take sides in two "clumps" or groups, the "clump" which guesses the word winning the game. 
Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless. Leigh Hunt. 
. 
imp. & p. p. of Cling. 
Wasted away; shrunken. [Obs.] 
The hands, claws, or talons, in the act of grasping firmly; -- often figuratively, for power, rapacity, or cruelty; as, to fall into the clutches of an adversary. I must have . . . little care of myself, if I ever more come near the clutches of such a giant. Bp. Stillingfleet. 
To reach (at something) as if to grasp; to catch or snatch; -- often followed by at. Clutching at the phantoms of the stock market. Bankroft. 
One of the peculiar stinging, cells found in Coelenterata; a nematocyst; a lasso cell. 
A cabin on the after part of the quarterdeck, usually occupied by the captain. [Written also couch.] [Obs.] The commanders came on board and the council sat in the coach. Pepys. 
To drive or to ride in a coach; -- sometimes used with it. [Colloq.] "Coaching it to all quarters." E. Waterhouse. 
To force; to compel; to drive. [Obs.] The faith and service of Christ ought to be voluntary and not coacted. Foxe. 
To act together; to work in concert; to unite. [Obs.] But if I tell you how these two did coact. Shak. 
See Coak, a kind of tenon. 
The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genus Ateles, esp. A. paniscus. The black-faced coaita is Ateles ater. See Illustration in Appendix. 
See Coke, n. 
A kind of tenon connecting the face of a scarfed timber with the face of another timber, or a dowel or pin of hard wood or iron uniting timbers. [Also spelt coag.] 
To unite, as timbers, by means of tenons or dowels in the edges or face. Totten. 
A black, or brownish black, solid, combustible substance, dug from beds or veins in the earth to be used for fuel, and consisting, like charcoal, mainly of carbon, but more compact, and often affording, when heated, a large amount of volatile matter. 
To take in coal; as, the steaer coaled at Southampton. 
Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of the nature of coal. 
Having a coarse grain or texture, as wood; hence, wanting in refinement. 
To slide down hill; to slide on a sled, upon snow or ice. [Local, U. S.] 
Of or pertaining to a cast. 
A coat with short flaps. 
A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to the raccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose. 
To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, or fondling; to wheedle; to soothe. 
A simpleton; a dupe. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 
One who coaxes. 
A spider; perhaps from its shape; it being round like a head. 
To break into small pieces, as ore, so as to sort out its better portions. Raymond. 
A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America. C. scandens is a consrvatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers. 
A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, not easily fusible, and somewhat magnetic. Atomic weight 59.1. Symbol Co. 
A fishing boat. See Coble. 
Cob coal. See under Cob. 
A large pebble; a rounded stone not too large to be handled; a small boulder; -- used for paving streets and for other purposes. 
Carryng on war in conjunction with another power. 
An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada); the crabeater; -- called also bonito, cubbyyew, coalfish, and sergeant fish. 
A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudder extending from two to four feet below the keel. It was originally used on the stormy coast of Yorkshire, England. 
A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut. 
See Copra. 
The cobra de capello. 
The European spotted flycatcher. Cobweb lawn, a fine linen, mentioned in 1640 as being in pieces of fifteen yards. Beck. Draper's Dict. Such a proud piece of cobweb lawn. Beau. & Fl. Cobweb micrometer, a micrometer in which threads of cobwed are substituted for wires. 
The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca). In med., called Erythroxylon. 
One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit. 
The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man and tailless monkeys. It is composed of several vertebræ more or less consolidated. 
To strut; to swagger; to look big, pert, or menacing. Addison. 
The act of cocking; also, the turn so given; as, a cock of the eyes; to give a hat a saucy cock. 
To draw the hammer of (a firearm) fully back and set it for firing. 
To draw back the hammer of a firearm, and set it for firing. Cocked, fired, and missed his man. Byron. 
A small concial pile of hay. 
To put into cocks or heaps, as hay. Under the cocked hay. Spenser. 
A small boat. Yond tall anchoring bark [appears] Diminished to her cock; her cock, a buoy Almost too small for sight. Shak. 
A corruption or disguise of the word God, used in oaths. [Obs.] "By cock and pie." Shak. 
A favorite soup in Scotland, made from a capon highly seasoned, and boiled with leeks and prunes. 
Th treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; to pamper. Cocker thy child and he shall make thee afraid. Ecclesiasticus xxx. 9. Poor folks cannot afford to cocker themselves up. J. Ingelow. 
A small dog of the spaniel kind, used for starting up woodcocks, etc. 
A rustic high shoe or half-boots. [Obs.] Drayton. 
Pert; saucy. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
A customhouse seal; a certified document given to a shopper as a warrant that his goods have been duly enstered and have paid duty. 
A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium, especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied to similar shells of other genera. 
To cause to contract into wrinkles or ridges, as some kinds of cloth after a wetting. Cockling sea, waves dashing against each other with a short and quick motion. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
A coarse, composite weed, having a rough or prickly fruit; one of several species of the genus Xanthium; -- called also clotbur. 
A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Lates calcarifer); -- also called begti. 
Pert. [Slang] 
A preparation made from the seeds of the chocolate tree, and used in making, a beverage; also the beverage made from cocoa or cocoa shells. Cocoa shells, the husks which separate from the cacao seeds in preparing them for use. 
A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and forming cocoons. 
An important edible fish (Gadus morrhua), Taken in immense numbers on the northern coasts of Europe and America. It is especially abundant and large on the Grand Bank of Newfoundland. It is salted and dried in large quantities. 
A few measures added beyond the natural termination of a composition. 
A gatherer of cods or peas. [Obs. or Prov.] Johnson. 
A gull in the plumage of its first year. 
A joint defendant. Blackstone. 
A kind of fish. Same as Cod. 
Ralating to a codex, or a code. 
To reduce to a code, as laws. 
A codifier; a maker of codes. [R.] 
See Coddle. 
A cavity. 
See Body cavity, under Body. 
Capable of being coerced. -- Co*er"ci*ble*ness, n. 
Of the same age; existing during the same period of time, especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with. Silence! coeval with eternity! Pope. Oaks coeval spread a mournful shade. Cowper. 
One of the same age; a contemporary. As if it were not enough to have outdone all your coevals in wit. Pope. 
A house of entertainment, where guests are supplied with coffee and other refreshments, and where men meet for conversation. The coffeehouse must not be dismissed with a cursory mention. It might indeed, at that time, have been not improperly called a most important political institution . . . The coffeehouses were the chief organs through which the public opinion of the metropolis vented itself . . . Every man of the upper or middle class went daily to his coffeehouse to learn the news and discuss it. Every coffeehouse had one or more orators, to whose eloquence the crowd listened with admiration, and who soon became what the journalists of our own time have been called -- a fourth estate of the realm. Macaulay. 
A panel deeply recessed in the ceiling of a vault, dome, or portico; a caisson. 
To secure from leaking, as a chaft, by ramming clay behind the masonry or timbering. Raymond. 
The hollow crust or hoof of a horse's foot, below the coronet, in which is the coffin bone. Coffin bone, the foot bone of the horse and allied animals, inclosed within the hoof, and corresponding to the third phalanx of the middle finger, or toe, of most mammals. -- Coffin joint, the joint next above the coffin bone. 
To inclose in, or as in, a coffin. Would'st thou have laughed, had I come coffined home Shak. Devotion is not coffined in a cell. John Hall (1646). 
A gang of negro slaves being driven to market. 
To deceive; to cheat; to play false; to lie; to wheedle; to cajole. For guineas in other men's breeches, Your gamesters will palm and will cog. Swift. 
A trick or deception; a falsehood. Wm. Watson. 
A tooth, cam, or catch for imparting or receiving motion, as on a gear wheel, or a lifter or wiper on a shaft; originally, a separate piece of wood set in a mortise in the face of a wheel. 
To furnish with a cog or cogs. Cogged breath sound (Auscultation), a form of interrupted respiration, in which the interruptions are very even, three or four to each inspiration. Quain. 
A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
In a cogent manner; forcibly; convincigly; conclusively. Locke. 
A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper. 
A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
A cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth. [Obs.] Wright. 
A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac. 
A tall, coarse grass (Imperata arundinacea) of the Philippine Islands and adjacent countries, used for thatching. 
A small wooden vessel; a pail. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitled to an inheritance. 
In a coherent manner. 
See Coehorn. 
A body of about five or six hundred soldiers; the tenth part of a legion. 
A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides), whose roostock is used in medicine; -- also called pappoose root. The name is sometimes also given to the Cimicifuga racemosa, and to two species of Actæa, plants of the Crowfoot family. 
A cap. Specifically: (a) A close-fitting cap covering the sides of the head, like a small hood without a cape. (b) An official headdress, such as that worn by certain judges in England. [Writting also quoif.] From point and saucy ermine down To the plain coif and russet gown. H. Brocke. The judges, . . . althout they are not of the first magnitude, nor need be of the degree of the coif, yet are they considerable. Bacon. 
To cover or dress with, or as with, a coif. And coif me, where I'm bald, with flowers. J. G. Cooper. 
Wearing a coif. 
A var. spelling of Coin, Quoin, a corner, wedge; -- chiefly used in the phrase coign of vantage, a position advantageous for action or observation. 
A quoin. See you yound coigne of the Capitol yon corner stone Shak. 
To wind itself cylindrically or spirally; to form a coil; to wind; -- often with about or around. You can see his flery serpents . . . Coiting, playing in the water. Longfellow. 
A noise, tumult, bustle, or confusion. [Obs.] Shak. 
A testicle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To manufacture counterfeit money. They cannot touch me for coining. Shak. 
One who dwells with another, or with others. "Coinhabitants of the same element." Dr. H. More. 
A quoit. [Obs.] Carew. 
To throw, as a stone. [Obs.] See Quoit. 
To join; to conjoin. [R.] Shak. 
Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, or other volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or by distillation, as in gas works. It is lagerly used where [Written also coak.] Gas coke, the coke formed in gas retorts, as distinguished from that made in ovens. 
To convert into coke. 
A simpleton; a gull; a dupe. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A short ridge connecting two higher elevations or mountains; the pass over such a ridge. 
L. pl. of Colon. 
Having a bluish effect. Cf. Warm, 8. Cold abscess. See under Abscess. -- Cold blast See under Blast, n., 2. Cold blood. See under Blood, n., 8. -- Cold chill, an ague fit. Wright. -- Cold chisel, a chisel of peculiar strength and hardness, for cutting cold metal. Weale. -- Cold cream. See under Cream. -- Cold slaw. See Cole slaw. -- In cold blood, without excitement or passion; deliberately. He was slain in cold blood after thefight was over. Sir W. Scott. To give one the cold shoulder, to treat one with neglect. 
A morbid state of the animal system produced by exposure to cold or dampness; a catarrh. Cold sore (Med.), a vesicular eruption appearing about the mouth as the result of a cold, or in the course of any disease attended with fever. -- To leave one out in the cold, to overlook or neglect him. [Colloq.] Cold, v. i. 
In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; with indifference; calmly. Withdraw unto some private place, And reason coldly of your grievances. Shak. 
A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B. oleracea called rape and coleseed. 
Bile; choler. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated for its bright-colored or variegated leaves. 
A crafty fox. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm, obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera. Hepatic colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a gallstone from the liver or gall bladder through the bile duct. -- Intestinal colic, or Ordinary colic, pain due to distention of the intestines by gas. -- Lead colic, Painter's colic, a violent form of intestinal colic, associated with obstinate constipation, produced by chronic lead poisoning. -- Renal colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a calculus from the kidney through the ureter. -- Wind colic. See Intestinal colic, above. 
Of or pertaining to the colon; as, the colic arteries. 
The American quail or bobwhite. The name is also applied to other related species. See Bobwhite. 
To embrace. [Obs.] "They coll and kiss him." Latimer. 
The neck or line of junction between the root of a plant and its stem. Gray. 
The clavicle. 
A small metal ring; a small collar fastened on an arbor; as, the collet on the balance arbor of a watch; a small socket on a stem, for holding a drill. 
See Collie. 
The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-haired and smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayed especially in caring for flocks. [Written also colly, colley.] 
A very pure form of gelatin. 
Having ridges or bunches of flesh, like collops. With that red, gaunt, and colloped neck astrain. R. Browning. 
Soot; smut. See 1st Colly. [Obs.] 
A neck or cervix. Dunglison. 
The black grime or soot of coal. [Obs.] Burton. 
To render black or dark, as of with coal smut; to begrime. [Archaic.] Thou hast not collied thy face enough. B. Jonson. Brief as the lighting in the collied night. Shak. 
A kind of dog. See Collie. 
That part of the large intestines which extends from the cæcum to the rectum. 
A number of animals or plants living or growing together, beyond their usual range. 
An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave to the plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially, thus removing the cause from the jury to the court. Blackstone. 
To acquire color; to turn red, especially in the face; to blush. 
See Color. 
See Collop. 
To frisk or frolic like a colt; to act licentiously or wantonly. [Obs.] They shook off their bridles and began to colt. Spenser. 
A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut the sward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard. [Written also coulter.] 
A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), having along the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelike membrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like the flying squirrel; -- called also flying lemur. 
A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually composed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order. 
One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in the poles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctial points, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the other intersects the equator at the distance of 90º from the former, and is called the solstitial colure. Thrice the equinoctial line He circled; four times crossed the car of night From pole to pole, traversing each colure. Milton. 
Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabit Africa. 
A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for its seeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricating purposes; summer rape. 
A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or impossible to rouse a person. See Carus. 
The envelope of a comet; a nebulous covering, which surrounds the nucleus or body of a comet. 
A covenant. [Obs.] Shak. 
Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy. 
To disentangle, cleanse, or adjust, with a comb; to lay smooth and straight with, or as with, a comb; as, to comb hair or wool. See under Combing. Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright. Shak. 
To roll over, as the top or crest of a wave; to break with a white foam, as waves. 
A dry measure. See Coomb. 
To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight. To combat with a blind man I disdain. Milton. After the fall of the republic, the Romans combated only for the choice of masters. Gibbon. 
To fight with; to oppose by force, argument, etc.; to contend against; to resist. When he the ambitious Norway combated. Shak. And combated in silence all these reasons. Milton. Minds combat minds, repelling and repelled. Goldsmith. 
An engagement of no great magnitude; or one in which the parties engaged are not armies. Single combat, one in which a single combatant meets a single opponent, as in the case of David and Goliath; also a duel. 
See Comb. 
To cumber. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Encumbrance. [Obs.] 
The cabrilla. Also, a name applied to a species of wrasse. [Prov. Eng.] 
To carry through; to succeed in; as, you can't come any tricks here. [Slang] To come it, to succeed in a trick of any sort. [Slang] 
Coming. Chaucer. 
A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., which on pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retained oily secretion, with a black head (dirt). 
A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright and amusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the manners of society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play in which mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; -- opposed to tragedy. With all the vivacity if comedy. Macaulay. Are come to play a pleasant comedy. Shak. 
In a becoming manner. Ascham. 
One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and is present. All comers, all who come, or offer, to take part in a matter, especially in a contest or controversy. "To prove it against all comers." Bp. Stillingfleet. 
The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue. 
A member of the solar system which usually moves in an elongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion, and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. A comet commonly consists of three parts: the nucleus, the envelope, or coma, and the tail; but one or more of these parts is frequently wanting. See Illustration in Appendix. 
A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preserved with sugar and dried; a confection. 
To preserve dry with sugar. The fruit which does so quickly waste, . . . Thou comfitest in sweets to make it last. Cowley. 
A comedian. [Obs.] Steele. 
A public assembly of the Roman people for electing officers or passing laws. 
Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals; friendly equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comity of States. Comity of nations (International Law), the courtesy by which nations recognize within their own territory, or in their courts, the peculiar institutions of another nation or the rights and privileges acquired by its citizens in their own land. By some authorities private international law rests on this comity, but the better opinion is that it is part of the common law of the land, and hence is obligatory as law. 
A small interval (the difference beyween a major and minor half step), seldom used except by tuners. Comma bacillus (Physiol.), a variety of bacillus shaped like a comma, found in the intestines of patients suffering from cholera. It is considered by some as having a special relation to the disease; -- called also cholera bacillus. -- Comma butterfly (Zoöl.), an American butterfly (Grapta comma), having a white comma-shaped marking on the under side of the wings. 
To sin; esp., to be incontinent. [Obs.] Commit not with man's sworn spouse. Shak. 
To mix or mingle together; to blend. The commixed impressions of all the colors do stir up and beget a sensation of white. Sir I. Newton. To commix With winds that sailors rail at. Shak. 
The right of taking a profit in the land of another, in common either with the owner or with other persons; -- so called from the community of interest which arises between the claimant of the right and the owner of the soil, or between the claimants and other commoners entitled to the same right. Common appendant, a right belonging to the owners or occupiers of arable land to put commonable beasts upon the waste land in the manor where they dwell. -- Common appurtenant, a similar right applying to lands in other manors, or extending to other beasts, besides those which are generally commonable, as hogs. -- Common because of vicinage or neighborhood, the right of the inhabitants of each of two townships, lying contiguous to each other, which have usually intercommoned with one another, to let their beasts stray into the other's fields. -- Common in gross or at large, a common annexed to a man's person, being granted to him and his heirs by deed; or it may be claimed by prescriptive right, as by a parson of a church or other corporation sole. Blackstone. -- Common of estovers, the right of taking wood from another's estate. -- Common of pasture, the right of feeding beasts on the land of another. Burill. -- Common of piscary, the right of fishing in waters belonging to another. -- Common of turbary, the right of digging turf upon the ground of another. 
The right of pasturing on a common; the right of using anything in common with others. The claim of comonage . . . in most of the forests. Burke. 
Bearing a tuft of soft hairs or down, as the seeds of milkweed. Gray. 
To make one yield or submit. "If she can not entreat, I can not compel." Shak. 
To infold; to embrace. [Obs.] Seemed to comply, Cloudlike, the daintie deitie. Herrick. 
Short for Composition; -- used, esp. in England, colloq. in various trade applications; as : (a) A mortar made of sand and cement. (b) A carver's mixture of resin, whiting, and glue, used  instead of plaster of Paris for ornamenting walls and cornices. (c) A composition for billiard balls. (d) A preparation of which printer's rollers are made. (e) A preparation used in currying leather. (f) Composition paid by a debtor. 
Account; reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Shak. 
To compute; to count. [Obs.] See Count. 
Neat; spruce. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 
Against the affirmative side; in opposition; on the negative side; -- The antithesis of pro, and usually in connection with it. See Pro. 
To conduct, or superintend the steering of (a vessel); to watch the course of (a vessel) and direct the helmsman how to steer. 
A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to those of the genus Strombus, which are of large size. S. gigas is the large pink West Indian conch. The large king, queen, and cameo conchs are of the genus Cassis. See Cameo. 
The plain semidome of an apse; sometimes used for the entire apse. 
Concurrence. 
To con, as a ship. 
One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker. 
To concur; to agree. [Burlesque] 
A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphus gryphus), found in the most elevated parts of the Andes. 
A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right- angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; - - called also a right cone. More generally, any solid having a vertical point and bounded by a surface which is described by a straight line always passing through that vertical point; a solid having a circle for its base and tapering to a point or vertex. 
To render coneshaped; to bevel like the circular segment of a cone; as, to cone the tires of car wheels. 
A rabbit. See Cony. 
Familiar talk or conversation. [Colloq.] 
To have discourse; to consult; to compare views; to deliberate. Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered. Acts xxv. 12. You shall hear us confer of this. Shak. 
Same as Comfit. [Obs.] 
To fix; to fasten. [Obs.]  Shak. 
Confused, disturbed. [Obs.]  Chaucer. 
An abbreviation of Congius. 
To take leave with the customary civilities; to bow or courtesy. 
Permissible; done lawfully; as, entry congeable. 
See Congé, Conge. [Obs.] 
Boiled rice; rice gruel. [India] 
The conger eel; -- called also congeree. Conger sea (Zoöl.), the sea eel; a large species of eel (Conger vulgaris), which sometimes grows to the length of ten feet. 
Same as Conine. 
A conic section. 
A peculiar kind of reproductive cell found in certain fungi, and often containing zoöspores. 
A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the hemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N, of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste. It is regarded as a derivative of piperidine and likewise of one of the collidines. It occasions a gradual paralysis of the motor nerves. Called also coniine, coneine, conia, etc. See Conium, 2. 
A magnesian variety of dolomite. 
A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferous plants, bearing ribbed fruit ("seeds") and decompound leaves. 
See Con, to direct a ship. 
A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops); also, the related American cunner. See Cunner. 
To connect. Sir M. Hale. 
Brave; fine; canny. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
, Resembling a cone; conoidal. 
A consolidated annuity (see Consols); -- chiefly in combination or attributively. 
A game, match, etc., open only to losers in early stages of contests. 
One of the two chief magistrates of the republic. 
A short narrative or tale, esp. one dealing with surprising or marvelous events. 
Contumely; reproach. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To context. [Obs.] Boyle. 
A Latin adverb and preposition, signifying against, contrary, in opposition, etc., entering as a prefix into the composition of many English words. Cf. Counter, adv. & pref. 
An American parrakeet of the genus Conurus. Many species are known. See Parrakeet. 
A Linnean genus of mollusks having a conical shell. See Cone, n., 4. 
Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularly protuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved line when viewed from without, in opposition to concave. Drops of water naturally form themselves into figures with a convex surface. Whewell. Double convex, convex on both sides; convexo-convex. 
A convex body or surface. Half heaven's convex glitters with the flame. Tickell. 
To play the thief; to steal. [Cant] But as I am Crack, I will convey, crossbite, and cheat upon Simplicius. Marston. 
To accompany for protection, either by sea or land; to attend for protection; to escort; as, a frigate convoys a merchantman. I know ye skillful to convoy The total freight of hope and joy. Emerson. 
An unnatural, violent, and unvoluntary contraction of the muscular parts of an animal body. 
To deceive; to cheat; to trick. [Obs.] Take heed, Signor Baptista, lest you be cony-catched in the this business. Shak. 
A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes as a call or signal. [Written also cooie.] 
To make the noise of the cuckoo. [Obs. or R.] Constant cuckoos cook on every side. The Silkworms (1599). 
To throw. [Prov.Eng.] "Cook me that ball." Grose. 
A fish, the European striped wrasse. 
To prepare food for the table. 
A female cook. [R.] 
A small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds. 
A moderate state of cold; coolness; -- said of the temperature of the air between hot and cold; as, the cool of the day; the cool of the morning or evening. 
That which cools, or abates heat or excitement. if acid things were used only as coolers, they would not be so proper in this case. Arbuthnot. 
Same as Cooly. 
Coolish; cool. [Obs.] Spenser. 
In a cool manner; without heat or excessive cold; without passion or ardor; calmly; deliberately; with indifference; impudently. 
Soot; coal dust; refuse matter, as the dirty grease which comes from axle boxes, or the refuse at the mouth of an oven. Phillips. Bailey. 
A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter. [Written also comb.] 
A raccoon. See Raccoon. 
To confine in a coop; hence, to shut up or confine in a narrow compass; to cramp; -- usually followed by up, sometimes by in. The Trojans coopet within their walls so long. Dryden. The contempt of all other knowledge . . . coops the understanding up within narrow bounds. Locke. 
See Coupe. [Obs.] Johnson. 
One who makes barrels, hogsheads, casks, etc. 
To do the work of a cooper upon; as, to cooper a cask or barrel. 
To choose or elect in concert with another. [R.] Each of the hundred was to coöpt three others. Jowett (Thysyd. ). 
The pharalope; -- so called because its toes are like the coot's. 
same as Merlon. 
A resinous substance flowing spontaneously from trees of Zanzibar, Madagascar, and South America (Trachylobium Hornemannianum, T. verrocosum, and Hymenæa Courbaril), and dug from earth where forests have stood in Africa; -- used chiefly in making varnishes. Ur 
The yellowish, fragrant balsam yielded by the sweet gum; also, the tree itself. 
To share. [Obs.] For, of all miserias, I hold that chief Wretched to be, when none coparts our grief. Webster (1661). 
The top part of a flask or mold; the outer part of a loam mold. Knight. De Colange. 
To form a cope or arch; to bend or arch; to bow. [Obs.] Some bending down and coping to ward the earth. Holland. 
To pare the beak or talons of (a hawk). J. H. Walsh. 
A narrow chisel adapted for cutting a groove. Knight. 
A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck. 
Clad in a cope. 
The highest or covering course of masonry in a wall, often with sloping edges to carry off water; -- sometimes called capping. Gwill. 
A copier. [Obs.] "A copist after nature." Shaftesbury. 
Rising to a point or head; conical; pointed; crested. Wiseman. 
See Cupel. 
the boilers in the galley for cooking; as, a ship's coppers. 
To cover or coat with copper; to sheathe with sheets of copper; as, to copper a ship. 
A cop of thread. 
Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hill rising to a point. A low cape, and upon it a copple not very high. Hakluyt. 
See Copse. [Obs.] 
The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil is expressed. [Written also cobra, copperah, coppra.] 
The connecting crook of a harrow. [Prov. Eng.] 
A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice. Near yonder copse where once the garden smiled. Goldsmith. 
Brushwood; coppice. Macaulay. 
Characterized by copses. "Copsy villages." "Copsy banks." J. Dyer. 
Of or pertaining to the Copts. -- n. 
The word which unites the subject and predicate. 
Manuscript or printed matter to be set up in type; as, the printers are calling for more copy. 
See Copier. 
A small loop or bow of ribbon used in making hats, boas, etc. 
To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; to treat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive and disappoint. You are coquetting a maid of honor. Swift. 
To trifle in love; to stimulate affection or interest; to play the coquette; to deal playfully instead of seriously; to play (with); as, we have coquetted with political crime. 
A Hebrew measure of capacity; a homer. [Written also core.] 
The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia to North Africa. 
See Courage [Obs.] To Canterbury with full devout corage. Chaucer. 
Plain; undyed; -- applied to Indian silk. -- n. 
The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a few Hydrozoa. Similar structures are also formed by some Bryozoa. 
An ornament in a building; a corbel. 
Crooked. [Obs.] "Corbe shoulder." Spenser. 
A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving the spring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothic architecture. 
To furnish with a corbel or corbels; to support by a corbel; to make in the form of a corbel. To corbel out, to furnish with a corbel of courses, each projecting beyond the one next below it. 
Any structure having the appearance of a cord, esp. a tendon or a nerve. See under Spermatic, Spinal, Umbilical, Vocal. 
Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope or cord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes. 
Same as Cordelle. 
Bound about, or wound, with cords. 
The coping of the scarp wall, which projects beyong the face of the wall a few inches. 
Of, or like, cord; having cords or cordlike parts. 
A body of individuals; an assemblage. [Obs.] He was in a core of people. Bacon. 
A miner's underground working time or shift. Raymond. 
A Hebrew dry measure; a cor or homer. Num. xi. 32 (Douay version). 
The prtion of a mold which shapes the interior of a cylinder, tube, or other hollow casting, or which makes a hole in or through a casting; a part of the mold, made separate from and inserted in it, for shaping some part of the casting, the form of which is not determined by that of the pattern. 
A joint regent or ruler. 
That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an apple corer. 
A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the Mediterranean Sea. 
A rival; a corrival. 
The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and taking care of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest. 
having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottle of wine is corked. 
A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb. 
See Corm. 
A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toees, by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome. Welkome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes Unplagued with corns, will have a bout with you. Shak. 
Anancient tenure of land, which obliged the tenant to give notice of an invasion by blowing a horn. 
The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which covers the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior. See Eye. 
The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas), a European shrub with clusters of small, greenish flowers, followed by very acid but edible drupes resembling cherries. 
The chief ornament. [Obs.] Thou makest the triumviry the cornercap of society. Shak. 
See Coronet, 2. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornus florida). 
A hornlike tuft of feathers on the head of some birds. 
A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn. 
Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn. Up stood the cornu reed. Milton. 
A kind of boat of various forms, used in the Indian Archipelago. 
An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey or other religious house for the sustenance of such of the king's servants as he may designate to receive it. [Written also corrody.] 
A corolla. 
The projecting part of a Classic cornice, the under side of which is cut with a recess or channel so as to form a drip. See Illust. of Column. 
Crown. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The land with which a prebend or other ecclesiastical office is endowed. [Obs.] The prebendaries over and above their reserved rents have a corps. Bacon. Army corps, or (French) Corps d'armée (k, a body containing two or more divisions of a large army, organized as a complete army in itself. -- Corps de logis (ke l Etym: [F., body of the house], the principal mass of a building, considered apart from its wings. -- Corps diplomatique (k Etym: [F., diplomatic body], the body of ministers or envoys accredited to a government. 
In a corpulent manner. 
A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing. Corpus callosum (k; pl. Corpora callosa (-s Etym: [NL., callous body] (Anat.), the great band of commissural fibers uniting the cerebral hemispheries. See Brain. -- Corpus Christi (kr Etym: [L., body of Christ] (R. C. Ch.), a festival in honor of the eucharist, observed on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday. -- Corpus Christi cloth. Same as Pyx cloth, under Pyx. -- Corpus delicti (d Etym: [L., the body of the crime] (Law), the substantial and fundamental fact of the comission of a crime; the proofs essential to establish a crime. -- Corpus luteum (l; pl. Corpora lutea (-. Etym: [NL., luteous body] (Anat.), the reddish yellow mass which fills a ruptured Grafian follicle in the mammalian ovary. -- Corpus striatum (str; pl. Corpora striata (-t. Etym: [NL., striate body] (Anat.), a ridge in the wall of each lateral ventricle of the brain. 
A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, by emigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of security for horses, cattle, etc. 
To surround and inclose; to coop up; to put into an inclosed space; -- primarily used with reference to securing horses and cattle in an inclosure of wagons while traversing the plains, but in the Southwestern United States now colloquially applied to the capturing, securing, or penning of anything. Bartlett. 
A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies. "Fleet foot on the correi." Sir W. Scott. 
Same as Correi. [Scot.] Geikie. 
The corsak. 
A small foxlike mammal (Cynalopex corsac), found in Central Asia. [Written also corsac.] 
The thorax of an insect. 
To inclose in corsets. 
The legislative assembly, composed of nobility, clergy, and representatives of cities, which in Spain and in Portugal answers, in some measure, to the Parliament of Great Britain. 
Bark; rind; specifically, cinchona bark. 
See Corf. 
An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair of roads, for the lord or sovereign. 
p. p. of Carve. Chaucer. 
Corymbose. 
Nasal catarrh. 
See Cozen. 
See Cozy. Dickens. 
To levy certain exactions or tribute upon; to lodge and eat at the expense of. See Coshering. 
A tailor who botches his work. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Cozily. 
The sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions. 
An apparattus for showing the position of the earth, at any given time, with respect to the fixed stars. It consist of a hollow glass globe, on which are depicted the stars and constellations, and within which is a terrestrial globe. 
A Hindoo measure of distance, varying from one and a half to two English miles. Whitworth. 
A thing (only in phrase below). Rule of Coss, an old name for Algebra. Etym: [It. regola di cosa rule of thing, the unknown quantity being called the cosa, or the thing.] 
Plain India muslin, of various qualities and widths. 
A lamb reared without the aid of the dam. Hence: A pet, in general. 
To treat as a pet; to fondle. She was cosseted and posseted and prayed over and made much of. O. W. Holmes. 
See Cottise. 
Expenses incurred in litigation. 
A rib of an animal or a human being. 
Pertaining to the ribs or the sides of the body; as, costal nerves. 
One who hawks about fruit, green vegetables, fish, etc. 
A garden plant (Chrysanthemum Balsamita) having a strong balsamic smell, and nearly allied to tansy. It is used as a pot herb and salad plant and in flavoring ale and beer. Called also alecost. 
See Cozy. 
A small, rudely-formed boat. Bell cot. (Arch.) See under Bell. 
A sleeping place of limited size; a little bed; a cradle; a piece of canvas extended by a frame, used as a bed. [Written also cott.] 
To go side by side with; hence, to pass by; to outrun and get before; as, a dog cotes a hare. [Obs.] Drayton. We coted them on the way, and hither are they coming. Shak. 
To quote. [Obs.] Udall. 
Living or being at the same time; contemporaneous. -- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv. -- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness, n. 
See Cottise. 
A surplice, in England and America usually one shorter and less full than the ordinary surplice and with short sleeves, or sometimes none. 
To fasten with a cotter. 
A somewhat stoun and thick fabric of cotton. 
A large, Old World, ground cuckoo of the genus Centropus, of several species. 
To transfer (as sheets of partly dried pulp) from the wire clotch mold to a felt blanket, for further drying. 
A preliminary layer, as of color, size, etc. 
Same as Couch. 
A measure of length; the distance from the elbow to the end of the middle finger; a cubit. 
An American feline quadruped (Felis concolor), resembling the African panther in size and habits. Its color is tawny, without spots; hence writers often called it the American lion. Called also puma, panther, mountain lion, and catamount. See Puma. 
To expel air, or obstructing or irritating matter, from the lungs or air passages, in a noisy and violent manner. 
One who coughs. 
Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible. Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditional present. 
A stream; (Geol.) 
To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count. Burrill. 
A formal statement of the plaintiff's case in court; in a more technical and correct sense, a particular allegation or charge in a declaration or indictment, separately setting forth the cause of action or prosecution. Wharton. 
A nobleman on the continent of Europe, equal in rank to an English earl. 
A sudden stroke; an unexpected device or stratagem; -- a term used in various ways to convey the idea of promptness and force. Coup de grace (ke gr Etym: [F.], the stroke of mercy with which an executioner ends by death the sufferings of the condemned; hence, a decisive, finishing stroke. -- Coup de main (ke m Etym: [F.] (Mil.), a sudden and unexpected movement or attack. -- Coup de soleil (k Etym: [F.] (Med.), a sunstroke. See Sunstroke. -- Coup d'état (k Etym: [F.] (Politics), a sudden, decisive exercise of power whereby the existing government is subverted without the consent of the people; an unexpected measure of state, more or less violent; a stroke of policy. -- Coup d'oeil (k. Etym: [F.] (a) A single view; a rapid glance of the eye; a comprehensive view of a scene; as much as can be seen at one view. (b) The general effect of a picture. (c) (Mil.) The faculty or the act of comprehending at a glance the weakness or strength of a military position, of a certain arrangement of troops, the most advantageous position for a battlefield, etc. 
Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- used especially for the head or limb of an animal. See Erased. 
A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raised from the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made. Chambers. 
See Couple-close. 
To come together as male and female; to copulate. [Obs.] Milton. Bacon. 
A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom of transferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.), given for a term of years, designed to be cut off and presented for payment when the interest is due; an interest warrant. 
A skin disease, common in India, in which there is perpetual itching and eruption, esp. of the groin, breast, armpits, and face. 
Curved; rounded. [Obs.] Her neck is short, her shoulders courb. Gower. 
To bend; to stop; to bow. [Obs.] Then I courbed on my knees. Piers Plowman. 
A continuous level range of brick or stones of the same height throughout the face or faces of a building. Gwilt. 
A grallatorial bird of Europe (Cursorius cursor), remarkable for its speed in running. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied to running birds of the Ostrich family. 
An inferior court of civil jurisdiction, attached to a manor, and held by the steward; a baron's court; -- now fallen into disuse. 
Allied; akin. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Could; was able; knew or known; understood. [Obs.] Above all other one Daniel He loveth, for he couth well Divine, that none other couth; To him were all thing couth, As he had it of God's grace. Gower. 
To arch over; to build in a hollow concave form; to make in the form of a cove. The mosques and other buildings of the Arabians are rounded into domes and coved roofs. H. Swinburne. Coved ceiling, a ceiling, the part of which next the wail is constructed in a cove. -- Coved vault, a vault composed of four coves meeting in a central point, and therefore the reverse of a groined vault. 
To brood, cover, over, or sit over, as birds their eggs. [Obs.] Not being able to cove or sit upon them [eggs], she [the female tortoise] bestoweth them in the gravel. Holland. 
A boy or man of any age or station. [Slang] There's a gentry cove here. Wit's Recreations (1654). Now, look to it, coves, that all the beef and drink Be not filched from us. Mrs. Browning. 
A convent or monastery. [Obs.] Bale. Covent Garden, a large square in London, so called because originally it was the garden of a monastery. 
The woods, underbrush, etc., which shelter and conceal game; covert; as, to beat a cover; to ride to cover. 
To spread a table for a meal; to prepare a banquet. [Obs.] Shak. 
Under cover, authority or protection; as, a feme covert, a married woman who is considered as being under the protection and control of her husband. Covert way, (Fort.) See Covered way, under Covered. 
One of the special feathers covering the bases of the quills of the wings and tail of a bird. See Illust. of Bird. 
To have or indulge inordinate desire. Which [money] while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith. 1 Tim. vi. 10. 
To brood; to incubate. [Obs.] [Tortoises] covey a whole year before they hatch. Holland. 
A pantry. [Prov. Eng.] Parker. 
A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudice a third. 
Deceitful; collusive; fraudulent; dishonest. 
A chimney cap; a cowl 
To depress with fear; to daunt the spirits or courage of; to overawe. To vanquish a people already cowed. Shak. THe French king was cowed. J. R. Green. 
A wedge, or brake, to check the motion of a machine or car; a chock. Knight. 
See Cowhage. 
One who works as a mason without having served a regular apprenticeship. [Scot.] 
Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs; -- said of a lion. 
A person who lacks courage; a timid or pusillanimous person; a poltroon. A fool is nauseous, but a coward worse. Dryden. 
To make timoroys; to frighten. [Obs.] That which cowardeth a man's heart. Foxe. 
A strong inclined frame, usually of wrought-iron bars, in front of a locomotive engine, for catching or throwing off obstructions on a railway, as cattle; the pilot. [U.S.] 
See Kauri. 
To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, to quail; to sink through fear. Our dame sits cowering o'er a kitchen fire. Dryden. Like falcons, cowering on the nest. Goldsmith. 
To cherish with care. [Obs.] 
Timorous; fearful; cowardly. [R.] Shak. 
An umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum Cous) with edible tuberous roots, found in Oregon. [Written also cous.] 
A vessel carried on a pole between two persons, for conveyance of water. Johnson. 
Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk. "That cowled churchman." Emerson. 
The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genus Dolichos; also, the plant itself. Many varieties are cultivated in the southern part of the United States. 
A pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, when communicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects from the smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, and kinepock. Dunglison. 
Same as Kauri. 
A coxcomb; a simpleton; a gull. [Obs.] Go; you're a brainless cox, a toy, a fop. Beau. & Fl. 
The first joint of the leg of an insect or crustacean. 
Somewhat coy or reserved. Warner. 
In a coy manner; with reserve. 
A carnivorous animal (Canis latrans), allied to the dog, found in the western part of North America; -- called also prairie wolf. Its voice is a snapping bark, followed by a prolonged, shrill howl. 
A South American rodent (Myopotamus coypus), allied to the beaver. It produces a valuable fur called nutria. [Written also coypou.] 
A contraction of cousin. Shak. 
To cheat; to defrand; to beguile; to deceive, usually by small arts, or in a pitiful way. He had cozened the world by fine phrases. Macualay. Children may be cozened into a knowledge of the letters. Locke. Goring loved no man so well but that he would cozen him, and expose him to public mirth for having been cozened. Clarendon. 
To deceive; to cheat; to act deceitfully. Some cogging,cozening slave. Shak. 
See Cosier. 
Snugly; comfortably. 
Chatty; talkative; sociable; familiar. [Eng.] 
A wadded covering for a teakettle or other vessel to keep the contents hot. 
One of the brachyuran Crustacea. They are mostly marine, and usually have a broad, short body, covered with a strong shell or carapace. The abdomen is small and curled up beneath the body. 
To drift sidewise or to leeward, as a vessel. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
Sour; rough; austere. The crab vintage of the neighb'ring coast. Dryden. 
Crabbed; difficult, or perplexing. "Persius is crabby, because ancient." Marston. 
The water rat. Walton. 
To scratch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of superior excellence; having qualities to be boasted of. [Colloq.] One of our crack speakers in the Commons. Dickens. 
An implement consisting of a broad scythe for cutting grain, with a set of long fingers parallel to the scythe, designed to receive the grain, and to lay it eventlyin a swath. 
To lie or lodge, as in a cradle. Withered roots and husks wherein the acorn cradled. Shak. 
A vessel; vessels of any kind; -- generally used in a collective sense. The evolutions of the numerous tiny craft moving over the lake. Prof. Wilson. Small crafts, small vessels, as sloops, schooners, ets. 
To play tricks; to practice artifice. [Obs.] You have crafted fair. Shak. 
A partially compacted bed of gravel mixed with shells, of the Tertiary age. 
Full of crags, or steep, broken Into its cragged rents descend. J. Baillie. 
Full of crags; rugged with projecting points of rocks; as, the craggy side of a mountain. "The craggy ledge." Tennyson. 
See Crare. [Obs.] 
A creel or osier basket. 
A boast. See Crack, n. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Any species or rail of the genera Crex and Porzana; -- so called from its singular cry. See Corncrake. 
One who boasts; a braggart. [Obs.] Old Play. 
A warp having more than two threads passing through each dent or split of the reed. 
One who crams; esp., one who prepares a pupil hastily for an exxamination, or a pupil who is thus prepared. Dickens. 
A device, usually of iron bent at the ends, used to hold together blocks of stone, timbers, etc.; a cramp iron. 
Knotty; difficult. [R.] Care being taken not to add any of the cramp reasons for this opinion. Coleridge. 
A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel. [Scot.] H. Miller. 
See Craunch. 
A wading bird of the genus Grus, and allied genera, of various species, having a long, straight bill, and long legs and neck. 
to reach forward with head and neck, in order to see better; as, a hunter cranes forward before taking a leap. Beaconsfield. Thackeray. The passengers eagerly craning forward over the bulwarks. Howells. 
See Krang. 
A genus of living Brachiopoda; -- so called from its fancied resemblance to the cranium or skull. 
A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at right angles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to or received from it; also used to change circular into reciprocating motion, or reciprocating into circular motion. See Bell crank. 
Liable to careen or be overest, as a ship when she is too narrow, or has not sufficient ballast, or is loaded too high, to carry full sail. 
To run with a winding course; to double; to crook; to wind and turn. See how this river comes me cranking in. Shak. 
Having crannies, chinks, or fissures; as, a crannied wall. Tennyson. 
A tool for forming the necks of bottles, etc. 
Quick; giddy; thoughtless. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A garland carried before the bier of a maiden. [Obs.] Yet here she is allowed her virgin crants, Her maaiden strewments. Shak. 
In the game of craps, a first throw of the dice in which the total is two, three, or twelve, in which case the caster loses. 
A thin, crimped stuff, made of raw silk gummed and twisted on the mill. Black crape is much used for mourning garments, also for the dress of some clergymen. A saint in crape is twice a saint in lawn. Pope. Crape myrtle (Bot.), a very ornamental shrub (Lagerströmia Indica) from the East Indies, often planted in the Southern United States. Its foliage is like that of the myrtle, and the flower has wavy crisped petals. -- Oriental crape. See Canton crape. 
To form into ringlets; to curl; to crimp; to friz; as, to crape the hair; to crape silk. The hour for curling and craping the hair. Mad. D'Arblay. 
A gambling game with dice. [Local, U.S.] 
Resembling crape. 
A slow unwieldy trading vessel. [Obs.] [Written also crayer, cray, and craie.] Shak. 
To break in pieces; to crack. [Obs.] "The pot was crased." Chaucer. 
To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise and violence. [R.] He shakt his head, and crasht his teeth for ire. Fairfax. 
Coarse, heavy, narrow linen cloth, used esp. for towels. 
A mixture of constituents, as of the blood; constitution; temperament. 
Cross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined. "Crass and fumid exhalations." Sir. T. Browne. "Crass ignorance" Cudworth. 
A manger or open frame for hay; a crib; a rack. [Obs.] Begin from first where He encradled was, In simple cratch, wrapt in a wad of hay. Spenser. Cratch cradle, a representation of the figure of the cratch, made upon the fingers with a string; cat's cradle; -- called also scratch cradle. 
To pack in a crate or case for transportation; as, to crate a sewing machine; to crate peaches. 
The pit left by the explosion of a mine. 
A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, worn by men about the neck. While his wig was combed and his cravat tied. Macualay. 
To desire strongly; to feel an insatiable longing; as, a craving appetite. Once one may crave for love. Suckling. 
Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless. "His craven heart." Shak. The poor craven bridegroom said never a word. Sir. W. Scott. In craven fear of the sarcasm of Dorset. Macualay. 
A recreant; a coward; a weak-hearted, spiritless fellow. See Recreant, n. King Henry. Is it fit this soldier keep his oath Fluellen.He is a craven and a villain else. Shak. 
To make recreant, weak, spiritless, or cowardly. [Obs.] There is a prohibition so divine, That cravens my weak hand. Shak. 
One who craves or begs. 
Any crustacean of the family Astacidæ, resembling the lobster, but smaller, and found in fresh waters. Crawfishes are esteemed very delicate food both in Europe and America. The North American species are numerous and mostly belong to the genus Cambarus. The blind crawfish of the Mamoth Cave is Cambarus pellucidus. The common European species is Astacus fluviatilis. 
The act or motion of crawling; 
A pen or inclosure of stakes and hurdles on the seacoast, for holding fish. 
Creepy. [Colloq.] 
A pencil of carbon used in producing electric light. Crayon board, cardboard with a surface prepared for crayon drawing. -- Crayon drawing, the act or art of drawing with crayons; a drawing made with crayons. 
To sketch, as with a crayon; to sketch or plan. He soon afterwards composed that discourse, conformably to the plan which he had crayoned out. Malone. 
A broken state; decrepitude; an impaired state of the intellect. 
Capable of being created. [Obs.] I. Watts. 
To make a prolonged sharp grating or ssqueaking sound, as by the friction of hard substances; as, shoes creak. The creaking locusts with my voice conspire. Dryden. Doors upon their hinges creaked. Tennyson. 
To produce a creaking sound with. Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry. Shak. 
Thew sound produced by anuthing that creaks; a creaking. Roget. 
To form or become covered with cream; to become thick like cream; to assume the appearance of cream; hence, to grow stiff or formal; to mantle. There are a sort of men whose visages Do cream and mantle like a standing pool. Shak. 
Full of, or containing, cream; resembling cream, in nature, appearance, or taste; creamlike; unctuous. "Creamy bowis." Collins. "Lines of creamy spray." Tennyson. "Your creamy words but cozen." Beau & Fl. 
Creative; formative. [R.] Mrs. Browning. 
See Creese. Tennison. 
One of the lines serving to define the limits of the bowler and the striker. Bowling crease (Cricket), a line extending three feet four inches on each side of the central strings at right angles to the line between the wickets. -- Return crease (Cricket), a short line at each end of the bowling crease and at right angles to it, extending toward the bowler. -- Popping crease (Cricket),, a line drawn in front of the wicket, four feet distant from it, parallel to the bowling crease and at least as long as the latter. J. H. Walsh (Encyc. of Rural Sports). 
To make a crease or mark in, as by folding or doubling. Creased, like dog's ears in a folio. Gray. 
Full of creases. Tennyson. 
An usher to a riding master. 
Created; composed; begotte. [Obs.] Hearts create of duty and zeal. Shak. 
Relating to, or produced by, flesh or animal food; as, creatic nausea. [Written also kreatic.] 
The tin ore which collects in the central part of the washing pit or buddle. 
A public nursery, where the young children of poor women are cared for during the day, while their mothers are at work. 
Trust given or received; expectation of future playment for property transferred, or of fulfillment or promises given; mercantile reputation entitling one to be trusted; -- applied to individuals, corporations, communities, or nations; as, to buy goods on credit. Credit is nothing but the expectation of money, within some limited time. Locke. 
To enter upon the credit side of an account; to give credit for; as, to credit the amount paid; to set to the credit of; as, to credit a man with the interest paid on a bond. To credit with, to give credit for; to assign as justly due to any one. Crove, Helmholtz, and Meyer, are more than any others to be credited with the clear enunciation of this doctrine. Newman. 
The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church. He repeated Aves and Credos. Macualay. 
To believe; to credit. [Obs.] That part which is so creeded by the people. Milton. 
The chub sucker. 
A tribe or confederacy of North American Indians, including the Muskogees, Seminoles, Uchees, and other subordinate tribes. They formerly inhabited Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. 
Containing, or abounding in, creeks; characterized by creeks; like a creek; winding. "The creeky shore." Spenser. 
A bar or set of bars with skewers for holding paying-off bobbins, as in the roving machine, throstle, and mule. 
A slow rising of the floor of a gallery, occasioned by the pressure of incumbent strata upon the pillars or sides; a gradual movement of mining ground. 
Crawly; having or producing a sensation like that caused by insects creeping on the skin. [Colloq.] One's whole blood grew curdling and creepy. R. Browning. 
An Algonquin tribe of Indians, inhabiting a large part of British America east of the Rocky Mountains and south of Hudson's Bay. 
A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having a serpentine blade. [Written also crease and kris.] From a Malayan creese to a sailor's jackknife. Julian Hawthorne. 
Cream; -- a term used esp. in cookery, names of liqueurs, etc. 
Cream; a substance resembling cream; yeast; scum. 
See Krems. 
See Crenelle. 
One born of European parents in the American colonies of France or Spain or in the States which were once such colonies, esp. a person of French or Spanish descent, who is a native inhabitant of Louisiana, or one of the States adjoining, bordering on the Gulf of of Mexico. 
Of or pertaining to a Creole or the Creoles. 
Same as Crape. 
A thin stuff made of the finest wool or silk, or of wool and silk. 
imp. & p. p. of Creep. 
Any one of three metameric substances, CH3.C6H4.OH, homologous with and resembling phenol. They are obtained from coal tar and wood tar, and are colorless, oily liquids or solids. 
A plant of various species, chiefly cruciferous. The leaves have a moderately pungent taste, and are used as a salad and antiscorbutic. 
Abounding in cresses. The cressy islets white in flower. Tennyson. 
A bearing worn, not upon the shield, but usually above it, or separately as an ornament for plate, liveries, and the like. It is a relic of the ancient cognizance. See Cognizance, 4. 
To form a crest. 
Pertaining to Crete, or Candia. -- n. 
A Cretan 
A poetic foot, composed of one short syllable between two long ones (-Bentley. 
One afflicted with cretinism. 
Used in English only in the expression en creux. Thus, engraving en creux is engraving in intaglio, or by sinking or hollowing out the design. 
A crucible or melting pot; a cruset. Crabb. 
The crawfish. [Prov. Eng.] 
The Manx shearwater. 
imp. of Crow. 
Worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery. 
See Cruet. 
A structure or frame of timber for a foundation, or for supporting a roof, or for lining a shaft. 
A game of cards, played by two or four persons, in which there is a crib. (See Crib, 11.) It is characterized by a great variety of chances. A man's fancy would be summed up in cribbage. John Hall. Cribbage board, a board with holes and pegs, used by cribbage players to score their game. 
The ring which turns inward and condenses the flame of a lamp. Knight. 
The creaking of a door, or a noise resembling it. [Obs.] Johnson. 
A small jackscrew. Knight. 
imp. & p. p. of Cry. 
One who cries; one who makes proclamation. Specifically, an officer who proclams the orders or directions of a court, or who gives public notice by loud proclamation; as, a town-crier. He openeth his mouth like a crier. Ecclus. xx. 15. 
Criminal; wicked; contrary to law, right, or dury. [Obs.] Shak. 
To cause to contract, or to render more crisp, as the flesh of a fish, by gashing it, when living, with a knife; as, to crimp skate, etc. Crimping house, a low lodging house, into which men are decoyed and plied with drink, to induce them to ship or enlist as sailors or soldiers. -- Crimping iron. (a) An iron instrument for crimping and curling the hair. (b) A crimping machine. -- Crimping machine, a machine with fluted rollers or with dies, for crimping ruffles leather, iron, etc. -- Crimping pin, an instrument for crimping or puckering the border of a lady's cap. 
The act or practice of crimping; money paid to a crimp for shipping or enlisting men. 
Having a crimped appearance; frizzly; as, the crimpy wool of the Saxony sheep. 
Of or pertaining to the hair. [R.] Blount. 
Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of the body; as, a charge crined of a red tincture. 
To draw one's self together as in fear or servility; to bend or crouch with base humility; to wince; hence; to make court in a degrading manner; to fawn. When they were come up to the place where the lions were, the boys that went before were glad to cringe behind, for they were afraid of the lions. Bunyan. Sly hypocrite, . . . who more than thou Once fawned and cringed, and servilely adored Heaven's awful monarch Milton. Flatterers . . . are always bowing and cringing. Arbuthnot. 
To contract; to draw together; to cause to shrink or wrinkle; to distort. [Obs.] Till like a boy you see him cringe his face, And whine aloud for mercy. Shak. 
Servile civility; fawning; a shrinking or bowing, as in fear or servility. "With cringe and shrug, and bow obsequious." Cowper. 
A genus of bulbous plants, of the order Amaryllidace, cultivated as greenhouse plants on account of their beauty. 
That change in a disease which indicates whether the result is to be recovery or death; sometimes, also, a striking change of symptoms attended by an outward manifestation, as by an eruption or sweat. Till some safe crisis authorize their skill. Dryden. 
To undulate or ripple. Cf. Crisp, v. t. To watch the crisping ripples on the beach. Tennuson. 
That which is crisp or brittle; the state of being crisp or brittle; as, burned to a crisp; specifically, the rind of roasted pork; crackling. 
To mark or cover with cross lines; as, a paper was crisscrossed with red marks. 
The unit for estimating the weight of a 
Of or pertaining to critics or criticism; critical. [Obs.] "Critic learning." Pope. 
To criticise; to play the critic. [Obs.] Nay, if you begin to critic once, we shall never have done. A. Brewer. 
To utter in a low, hoarse voice; to announce by croaking; to forebode; as, to croak disaster. The raven himself is hoarse, That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan. Shak. Two ravens now began to croak Their nuptial song. Wordsworth. 
The coarse, harsh sound uttered by a frog or a raven, or a like sound. 
Of or pertaining to Croatia. -- n. 
A little bud or knob at the top of a deer's antler. 
The loose black particles collected from combustion, as on pots and kettles, or in a chimney; soot; smut; also, coloring matter which rubs off from cloth. 
To soil by contact, as with soot, or with the coloring matter of badly dyed cloth. 
To give off crock or smut. 
A low stool. "I . . . seated her upon a little crock." Tatler. 
Any piece of crockery, especially of coarse earthenware; an earthen pot or pitcher. Like foolish flies about an honey crock. Spenser. 
To lay up in a crock; as, to crock butter. Halliwell. 
Smutty. 
A genus of iridaceous plants, with pretty blossoms rising separately from the bulb or corm. C. vernus is one of the earliest of spring-blooming flowers; C. sativus produces the saffron, and blossoms in the autumn. 
A small, inclosed field, adjoining a house; a small farm. A few small crofts of stone-encumbered ground. Wordsworth. 
See Cross, n. [Obs.] 
Terminated with crescent; -- said of a cross the ends of which are so terminated. 
A cultivator of saffron; a dealer in saffron. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
A quaver. [Obs.] 
The iron head of a tilting spear. 
The coronet of a horse. 
A small tube, usually curved, applied to a trumpet, horn, etc., to change its pitch or key. 
To bend; to curve; to wind; to have a curvature. " The port . . . crooketh like a bow." Phaer. Their shoes and pattens are snouted, and piked more than a finger long, crooking upwards. Camden. 
A projecting ornament in carved stone. Specifically, a finial. [Obs.] 
To yield harvest. To crop out. (a) (Geol.) To appear above the surface, as a seam or vein, or inclined bed, as of coal. (b) To come to light; to be manifest; to appear; as, the peculiarities of an author crop out. -- To crop up, to sprout; to spring up. "Cares crop up in villas." Beaconsfield. 
Ten millions; as, a crore of rupees (which is nearly $5,000,000). [East Indies] Malcolm. 
A monument in the form of a cross, or surmounted bu a cross, set up in a public place; as, a market cross; a boundary cross; Charing Cross in London. Dun-Edin's Cross, a pillared stone, Rose on a turret octagon. Sir W. Scott. 
Athwart; across. [Archaic or Colloq.] A fox was taking a walk one night cross a village. L'Estrange. To go cross lots, to go across the fields; totake a short cut. [Colloq.] 
With arms crossed. 
The implement with which the ball is thrown and caught in the game of lacrosse. 
A stanchion or post of wood or iron, with two arms for supporting a boom, spare yards, etc.; -- called also crane and crutch. Totten. 
A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropical countries. Croton oil (Med.), a viscid, acrid, brownish yellow oil obtained from the seeds of Croton Tiglium, a small tree of the East Indies. It is a most powerful drastic cathartic, and is used externally as a pustulant. 
Marked with the sign of the cross. [Obs.] Crouched friar. See Crutched friar, under Crutched. 
See Crowd, a violin. 
A crock; a jar. [Obs.] Chauser. 
The hinder part or buttocks of certain quadrupeds, especially of a horse; hence, the place behind the saddle. So light to the croup the fair lady he swung, So light to the saddle before her he sprung. Sir W. Scott. 
An inflammatory affection of the larynx or trachea, accompanied by a hoarse, ringing cough and stridulous, difficult breathing; esp., such an affection when associated with the development of a false membrane in the air passages (also called membranous croup). See False croup, under False, and Diphtheria. 
Of or pertaining to croup; resembling or indicating croup; as, a croupy cough. 
Brisk; lively; bold; self-complacent. [Scot.] Burns. 
See Sourkrout. 
A bird, usually black, of the genus Corvus, having a strong conical beak, with projecting bristles. It has a harsh, croaking note. See Caw. 
An ancient instrument of music with six strings; a kind of violin, being the oldest known stringed instrument played with a bow. [Written also croud, crowth, cruth, and crwth.] A lackey that . . . can warble upon a crowd a little. B. Jonson. 
To play on a crowd; to fiddle. [Obs.] "Fiddlers, crowd on." Massinger. 
A thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water; food of the porridge kind. [Scot.] 
p. p. of Crow. [Obs.] 
The part of a tooth which projects above the gum; also, the top or grinding surface of a tooth. 
To cause to round upward; to make anything higher at the middle than at the edges, as the face of a machine pulley. 
A tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; -- also called Upsarokas. 
An ancient musical instrument. See 4th Crowd. 
See Cross, n. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A cooper's tool for making the grooves for the heads of casks, etc.; also, the groove itself. 
See Curd. [Obs.] 
Harsh and offensive, as a color; tawdry or in bad taste, as a combination of colors, or any design or work of art. 
See Cruddle. 
Coagulated. [Obs.] His cruel wounds with crudy blood congealed. Spenser. 
Characterized by crudeness; raw. [Obs.] The foolish and dull and crudy vapors. Shak. 
See Crewel. 
Cruelty. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck. 
A vessel used to hold wine, oil, or water for the service of the altar. Cruet stand, a frame for holding cruets; a caster. 
See Cruse, a small bottle. 
A voyage made in various directions, as of an armed vessel, for the protection of other vessels, or in search of an enemy; a sailing to and fro, as for exploration or for pleasure. He feigned a compliance with some of his men, who were bent upon going a cruise to Manilla. Dampier. 
A kind of weir or dam for trapping salmon; also, a hovel. [Scot.] 
Curly; curled. [Obs.] 
To break into crumbs or small pieces with the fingers; as, to crumb bread. [Written also crum.] 
A kind of large. thin muffin or cake, light and spongy, and cooked on a griddle or spider. 
Brittle; crisp. Wright. 
To crush with the teeth; to chew with a grinding noise; to craunch; as, to crunch a biscuit. 
The coloring matter of the blood; the clotted portion of coagulated blood, containing the coloring matter; gore. 
Short; brittle; as, crup cake. Todd. 
See Croup, the rump of a horse. 
See Crus. 
Of or pertaining to the thigh or leg, or to any of the parts called crura; as, the crural arteries; crural arch; crural canal; crural ring. 
To engage in a crusade; to attack in a zealous or hot-headed manner. "Cease crusading against sense." M. Green. 
A goldsmith's crucible or melting pot. 
To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smaller compass, by external weight or force; as, an eggshell crushes easily. 
One who, or that which, crushes. Crusher gauge, an instrument for measuring the explosive force of gunpowder, etc., by its effect in compressing a piece of metal. 
The exterior portion of the earth, formerly universally supposed to inclose a molten interior. 
To cover with a crust; to cover or line with an incrustation; to incrust. The whole body is crusted over with ice. Boyle. And now their legs, and breast, and bodies stood Crusted with bark. Addison. Very foul and crusted bottles. Swift. Their minds are crusted over, like diamonds in the rock. Felton. 
To gather or contract into a hard crust; to become incrusted. The place that was burnt . . . crusted and healed. Temple. 
One of the classes of the arthropods, including lobsters and crabs; -- so called from the crustlike shell with which they are covered. 
Having a hard exterior, or a short, rough manner, though kind at heart; snappish; peevish; surly. Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news Shak. 
The rough, shaggy part of oak bark. 
To support on crutches; to prop up. [R.] Two fools that crutch their feeble sense on verse. Dryden. 
See 4th Crowd. 
Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain. Dr. Sheridan. The perpetual crux of New Testament chronologists. Strauss. 
See 4th Crowd. 
The heron [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
The female of the hawk; a falcon-gentil. 
Calling for notice; compelling attention; notorious; heinous; as, a crying evil. Too much fondness for meditative retirement is not the crying sin of our modern Christianity. I. Taylor. 
A simple gland, glandular cavity, or tube; a follicle; as, the cryps of Lieberk. 
To bring forth; -- said of animals, or in contempt, of persons. "Cubb'd in a cabin." Dryden. 
To shut up or confine. [Obs.] Burton. 
Of or pertaining to Cuba or its inhabitants. -- n. 
A regular solid body, with six equal square sides. 
To raise to the third power; to obtain the cube of. 
The small, spicy berry of a species of pepper (Piper Cubeba; in med., Cubeba officinalis), native in Java and Borneo, but now cultivated in various tropical countries. The dried unripe fruit is much used in medicine as a stimulant and purgative. 
A curve of the third degree. Circular cubic. See under Circular. 
The lowest course of stones in a building. 
A movement or phase in post-impressionism (which see, below). - - Cu"bist (#), n. 
The forearm; the ulna, a bone of the arm extending from elbow to wrist. [Obs.] 
Cube-shaped, or nearly so; as, the cuboid bone of the foot. -- n. (Anat.) 
See Coca. 
A bird belonging to Cuculus, Coccyzus, and several allied genera, of many species. 
The fire beetle of Mexico and the West Indies. 
A lichen (Lecanora tartarea), from which the powder is obtained. 
The coalfish. See 3d Cuddy. 
To She cuddles low beneath the brake; Nor would she stay, nor dares she fly. Prior. 
To embrace closely; to foundle. Forby. 
A close embrace. 
A lever mounted on a tripod for lifting stones, leveling up railroad ties, etc. Knight. 
A small cabin: also, the galley or kitchen of a vessel. 
The coalfish (Pollachius carbonarius). [Written also cudden.] 
A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, and wielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon. He getteth him a grievous crabtree cudgel and . . . falls to rating of them as if they were dogs. Bunyan. Cudgel play, a fight or sportive contest with cudgels. -- To cross the cudgels, to forbear or give up the contest; -- a phrase borrowed from the practice of cudgel players, who lay one cudgel over another when the contest is ended. -- To take up cudgels for, to engage in a contest in behalf of (some one or something). 
To beat with a cudgel. An he here, I would cudgel him like a dog. Shak. To cudgel one's brains, to exercise one's wits. 
To form into a cue; to braid; to twist. 
A small portion of bread or beer; the quantity bought with a farthing or half farthing. [Obs.] 
The body. In cuerpo, without full dress, so that the shape of the Body is exposed; hence, naked or uncovered. Exposed in cuerpo to their rage. Hudibras. 
A sloping plain, esp. one with the upper end at the crest of a cliff; a hill or ridge with one face steep and the opposite face gently sloping. [Southwestern U. S.] 
To fight; to scuffle; to box. While the peers cuff to make the rabble sport. Dryden. 
A blow; esp.,, a blow with the open hand; a box; a slap. Snatcheth his sword, and fiercely to him flies; Who well it wards, and quitten cuff with cuff. Spenser. Many a bitter kick and cuff. Hudibras. 
A name for a negro. [Slang] 
Of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabic language. [Written also Kufic.] 
Defensive armor for the thighs. [ Written also cuisse, and quish.] 
One of a class of anchorites who lived in various parts of Scotland, Ireland, and Wales. The pure Culdees Were Albyn's earliest priests of God. Campbell. 
A genus of dipterous insects, including the gnat and mosquito. 
To separate, select, or pick out; to choose and gather or collect; as, to cuil flowers. From his herd he culls, For slaughter, from the fairest of his bulls. Dryden. Whitest honey in fairy gardens culled. Tennyson. 
A cully; a dupe; a gull. See Gully. 
One who piks or chooses; esp., an inspector who select wares suitable for market. 
Broken glass for remelting. 
A small central plane in the back of a cut gem. See Collet, 3 (b). 
A strong broth of meat, strained and made clear for invalids; also, a savory jelly. [Obs.] When I am exellent at caudles And cullises . . . you shall be welcome to me. Beau. & Fl. 
A gutter in a roof; a channel or groove. 
A person easily deceived, tricked, or imposed on; a mean dupe; a gull. I have learned that . . . I am not the first cully whom she has passed upon for a countess. Addison. 
To trick, cheat, or impose on; to deceive. "Tricks to cully fools." Pomfret. 
The stalk or stem of grain and grasses (including the bamboo), jointed and usually hollow. 
The dorsal ridge of a bird's bill. 
Negligence or fault, as distinguishable from dolus (deceit, fraud), which implies intent, culpa being imputable to defect of intellect, dolus to defect of heart. Wharton. 
Blameworthiness. [Obs.] Banished out of the realme . . . without culpe. E. Hall. 
A shered; a fragment; a strip of wood. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Empty oyster shells and other substances laid down on oyster grounds to furnish points for the attachment of the spawn of the oyster. [Also written cutch.] 
A colter. See Colter. 
Established or accepted religious rites or usages of worship; state of religious development. Cf.Cult, 2. 
A dove. "Culver in the falcon's fist." Spenser. 
A culverin. Falcon and culver on each tower Stood prompt their deadly hail to shower. Sir W. Scott. 
To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to be burdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining an object, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble. Why asks he what avails him not in fight, And would but cumber and retard his flight Dryden. Martha was cumbered about much serving. Luke x. 40. Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground Luke xiii. 7. The multiplying variety of arguments, especially frivolous ones, . . . but cumbers the memory. Locke. 
Trouble; embarrassment; distress. [Obs.] [Written also comber.] A place of much distraction and cumber. Sir H. Wotton. Sage counsel in cumber. Sir W. Scott. 
A colorless oily hydrocarbon, C6H5.C3H7, obtained by the distillation of cuminic acid; -- called also cumol. 
See Cuming. 
A dwarf umbelliferous plant, somewhat resembling fennel (Cuminum Cyminum), cultivated for its seeds, which have a bitterish, warm taste, with an aromatic flavor, and are used like those of anise and caraway. [Written also cummin.] Rank-smelling rue, and cumin good for eyes. Spenser. Black cumin (Bot.), a plant (Nigella sativa) with pungent seeds, used by the Afghans, etc. 
Same as Cumin. Ye pay tithe of mint, and cummin. Matt. xxiii. 23. 
To con (a ship). [Obs.] 
To know. See Con. [Obs.] 
To con (a ship). [Obs.] 
Relating to a wedge; wedge-shaped. 
In a cunning manner; with cunning. 
Repeated potations; social or exessive indulgence in intoxicating drinks; revelry. Thence from cups to civil broils. Milton. 
To apply a cupping apparatus to; to subject to the operation of cupping. See Cupping. 
A shallow porus cup, used in refining precious metals, commonly made of bone ashes (phosphate of lime). [Written also coppel.] Cupel dust, powder used in purifying metals. 
To refine by means of a cupel. 
As much as a cup will hold. 
The god of love, son of Venus; usually represented as a naked, winged boy with bow and arrow. Pretty dimpled boys, like smiling cupids. Shak. 
A roof having a rounded form, hemispherical or nearly so; also, a celing having the same form. When on a large scale it is usually called dome. 
One who performs the operation of cupping. 
Consisting of copper or resembling copper; coppery. 
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its lowest proportion. 
Copper. 
A cuplet or little cup, as the acorn; the husk or bur of the filbert, chestnut, etc. 
The state of being curable; curableness. 
The office or employment of a curate. 
A cuirass or breastplate. [Obs.] Spenser. 
One who has the cure souls; originally, any clergyman, but now usually limited to one who assist a rector or vicar Hook. All this the good old man performed alone, He spared no pains, for curate he had none. Dryden. 
To bend; to crouch; to cringe. [Obs.] Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg, Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good. Shak. 
An assemblage of three or more pieces of timber, or a metal member, forming a frame around an opening, and serving to maintain the integrity of that opening; also, a ring of stone serving a similar purpose, as at the eye of a dome. 
See Courche. 
To cause to coagulate or thicken; to cause to congeal; to curdle. Does it curd thy blood To say I am thy mother Shak. 
To become coagulated or thickened; to separate into curds and whey Shak. 
Destitute of curd. 
Like curd; full of curd; coagulated. "A curdy mass." Arbuthnot. 
A curate; a pardon. 
A scoop or ring with either a blunt or a cutting edge, for removing substances from the walls of a cavity, as from the eye, ear, or womb. 
The court of a sovereign or of a feudal lord; also; his residence or his household. Burrill. 
Of or pertaining to the papal curia; as, the curial etiquette of the Vatican. -- n. 
A cuirass. [Obs.] Spenser. 
p. a. & vb. n. of Cure. Curing house, a building in which anything is cured; especially, in the West Indies, a building in which sugar is drained and dried. 
Any curiosity or article of virtu. The busy world, which does not hunt poets as collectors hunt for curios. F. Harrison. 
To shape (the brim) into a curve. 
Having curls; curly; sinuous; wavy; as, curled maple (maple having fibers which take a sinnuous course). Curled hair (Com.), the hair of the manes and tails of horses, prepared for upholstery purposes. McElrath. 
A wading bird of the genus Numenius, remarkable for its long, slender, curved bill. 
Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples; crinkled. 
To coo. [Scot.] The owlets hoot, the owlets curr. Wordsworth. 
See 2d & 3d Curry. 
A kind of sauce much used in India, containing garlic, pepper, ginger, and other strong spices. 
To flavor or cook with curry. 
To utter imprecations or curses; to affirm or deny with imprecations; to swear. Then began he to curse and to swear. Matt. xxi. 74. His spirits hear me, And yet I need must curse. Shak. 
Deserving a curse; execrable; hateful; detestable; abominable. Let us fly this cursed place. Milton. This cursed quarrel be no more renewed. Dryden. 
One who curses. 
Any part of a mathematical instrument that moves or slides backward and forward upon another part. 
imp. & p.p. of Curse. 
Froward; malignant; mischievous; malicious; snarling. [Obs.] Though his mind Be ne'er so curst, his tonque is kind. Crashaw. 
Characterized by exessive brevity; short; rudely concise; as, curt limits; a curt answer. The curt, yet comprehensive reply. W. Irving. 
Curt; brief; laconic. Essays and curtal aphorisms. Milton. Curtal dog. See Curtail dog. 
A horse with a docked tail; hence, anything cut short. [Obs] Nares. 
Courteous. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In a curt manner. 
Same as Courtesy, an act of respect. 
Of or pertaining to a kind of chair appropriated to Roman magistrates and dignitaries; pertaining to, having, or conferring, the right to sit in the curule chair; hence, official. 
A Chilian burrowing rodent of the genus Spalacopus. 
Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curve surface. 
A line described according to some low, and having no finite portion of it a straight line. Axis of a curve. See under Axis. -- Curve of quickest descent. See Brachystochrone. -- Curve tracing (Math.), the process of determining the shape, location, singular points, and other perculiarities of a curve from its equation. -- Plane curve (Geom.), a curve such that when a plane passes through three points of the curve, it passes through all the other points of the curve. Any other curve is called a curve of double curvature, or a twisted curve. 
To bend; to crook; as, to curve a line; to curve a pipe; to cause to swerve from a straight course; as, to curve a ball in pitching it. 
To bend or turn gradually from a given direction; as, the road curves to the right. 
A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legs at once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raises his hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once. 
To cause to curvet. Landor. 
A soft grass (Pennisetum typhoideum) found in all tropical regions, used as food for men and cattle in Central Africa. 
The ringdove or wood pigeon. Scarce with cushat's homely song can vie. Sir W. Scott. 
A large, edible, marine fish (Brosmius brosme), allied to the cod, common on the northern coasts of Europe and America; -- called also tusk and torsk. 
A kind of drinking cup. [Obs.] 
A triangular protection from the intrados of an arch, or from an inner curve of tracery. 
To furnish with a cusp or cusps. 
One of the canine teeth; -- so called from having but one point or cusp on the crown. See Tooth. 
A point; a sharp end. 
Long-established practice, considered as unwritten law, and resting for authority on long consent; usage. See Usage, and Prescription. 
To have a custom. [Obs.] On a bridge he custometh to fight. Spenser. 
1 the customary toll,tax, or tribute. Render, therefore, to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; custom to whom custom. Rom. xiii. 7. 
To pay the customs of. [Obs.] Marlowe. 
A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent. [Obs.] Custos rotulorum (r Etym: [LL., keeper of the rolls] (Eng. Law), the principal justice of the peace in a county, who is also keeper of the rolls and records of the sessions of the peace. 
Of pertaining to the skin; existing on, or affecting, the skin; as, a cutaneous disease; cutaneous absorption; cutaneous respiration. 
See Catechu. 
See Cultch. 
Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning. [Colloq.] 
The substance which, added to the material of a cell wall, makes it waterproof, as in cork. 
See Dermis. 
One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cutting instruments. 
A piece of meat, especially of veal or mutton, cut for broiling. 
A variety of cellulose, occuring as a fine transparent membrane covering the aerial organs of plants, and forming an essential ingredient of cork; by oxidation it passes to suberic acid. 
One who cuts throats; a murderer; an assassin. 
A knife. [Obs.] Bale. 
Short; as, a cutty knife; a cutty sark. [Scot.] 
The chief police officer of a large city. [East Indies] 
A compound formed by the union of cyanogen with an element or radical. 
The blue coloring matter of flowers; -- called also anthokyan and anthocyanin. 
Any plant of the natural order Cycadeceæ, as the sago palm, etc. 
A genus of trees, intermediate in character between the palms and the pines. The pith of the trunk of some species furnishes a valuable kind of sago. 
A long gown or surcoat (cut off in front), worn in the Middle Ages. It was sometimes embroidered or interwoven with gold. Also, a rich stuff from which the gown was made. 
One entire round in a circle or a spire; as, a cycle or set of leaves. Gray. 
Of or pertaining to a cycle or circle; moving in cycles; as, cyclical time. Coleridge. Cyclic chorus, the chorus which performed the songs and dances of the dithyrambic odes at Athens, dancing round the altar of Bacchus in a circle. -- Cyclic poets, certain epic poets who followed Homer, and wrote merely on the Trojan war and its heroes; -- so called because keeping within the circle of a singe subject. Also, any series or coterie of poets writing on one subject. Milman. 
See Note under Cyclops, 1. 
See Cider. [Archaic] 
A young swan. Shak. 
A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, or following, Lyra; the Swan. 
A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which is wavelike in form. 
A sight covering; a scarf. See Simar. Her body shaded with a light cymar. Dryden. 
A performer upon cymbals. 
A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal or determinate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of the opening of the blossoms. 
A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol, camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen. 
Having the form of a cyme. 
Welsh. -- n. 
A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by themselves . [Written also Cymri, Cwmry, Kymry, etc.] 
A small cyme, or one of very few flowers. 
In a cynical manner. 
See Cion, and Scion. 
See Cipher. 
A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform as nearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law. Mozley & W. 
A genus of small, bivalve, freshwater Crustacea, belonging to the Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus. 
A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to, crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common, and used for mourning. [Obs.] Lawn as white as driven snow, Cyprus black as e'er was crow. Shak. 
One of the bladders or air vessels of certain algæ, as of the great kelp of the Pacific, and common rockweeds (Fuci) of our shores. D. C. Eaton. 
Inclosed in a cyst. 
Pertaining to, or contained in, a cyst; esp., pertaining to, or contained in, either the urinary bladder or the gall bladder. Cystic duct, the duct from the gall bladder which unites with the hepatic to form the common bile duct. -- Cystic worm (Zoöl.), a larval tape worm, as the cysticercus and echinococcus. 
One of the Cystidea. 
A cyst. See Cyst. 
A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest form of independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei are present. 
Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle, etc. 
The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development of which the child or other organism is formed. Hæckel. 
A king; a chief; the title of the emperor of Russia. [Written also tzar.] 
Of or pertaining to the Czechs. "One Czechic realm." The Nation. 
The most westerly branch of the great Slavic family of nations, numbering now more than 6,000,000, and found principally in Bohemia and Moravia. 
A skillful hand; a dabster; an expert. [Colloq.] One excels at a plan or the titlepage, another works away at the body of the book, and the therd is a dab at an index. Goldsmith. 
A name given to several species of Pleuronectes . TheAmerican rough dab is Hippoglossoides platessoides. 
A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb. 
That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used by printers, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plates with ink. 
To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; to moisten; to wet. "Bright hair dabbled in blood." Shak. 
In a dabbling manner. 
A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica). 
From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, the first strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain so repeated. 
A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus or Leuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare. 
Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians. -- n. 
One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs. 
A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followed by two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L. tëgmînê, E. mer"ciful; -- so called from the similarity of its arrangement to that of the joints of a finger. [Written also dactyle.] 
Father; -- a word sometimes used by children. I was never so bethumped withwords, Since I first called my brother's father dad. Shak. 
To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man; hence, to do anything slowly or feebly. 
Diminutive of Dad. Dryden. 
To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child while he toddles. [Obs.] Little children when they learn to go By painful mothers daded to and fro. Drayton. 
To walk unsteadily, as a child in leading strings, or just learning to walk; to move slowly. [Obs.] No sooner taught to dade, but from their mother trip. Drayton. 
Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves. 
To cast aside; to put off; to doff. [Obs.] Canst thou so daff me Thou hast killed my child. Shak. 
A stupid, blockish fellow; a numskull. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To act foolishly; to be foolish or sportive; to toy. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
To daunt. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
The quality of being daft. 
The unbrunched antler of a young deer. 
A misty shower; dew. [Obs.] 
A loose end; a dangling shred. Daglocks, clotted locks hanging in dags or jags at a sheep's tail. Wedgwood. 
To be misty; to drizzle. [Prov. Eng.] 
A mark of reference in the form of a dagger [|]. It is the second in order when more than one reference occurs on a page; -- called also obelisk. Dagger moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus Apatalea. The larvæ are often destructive to the foliage of fruit trees, etc. -- Dagger of lath, the wooden weapon given to the Vice in the old Moralities. Shak. -- Double dagger, a mark of reference [||] which comes next in order after the dagger. -- To look, or speak, daggers, to look or speak fiercely or reproachfully. 
To pierce with a dagger; to stab. [Obs.] 
A timber placed diagonally in a ship's frame. Knight. 
An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introduced about a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; to moisten. The warrior's very plume, I say, Was daggled by the dashing spray. Sir W. Scott. 
To run, go, or trail one's self through water, mud, or slush; to draggle. Nor, like a puppy [have I] daggled through the town. Pope. 
A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension, Portuguese or Italian) descent. [U. S.] 
A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or some Buddhist saint. [East Indies] 
The national god of the Philistines, represented with the face and hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish. W. Smith. This day a solemn feast the people hold To Dagon, their sea idol. Milton. They brought it into the house of Dagon. 1 Sam. v. 2. 
A slip or piece. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of the order Compositæ; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerous varieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differ in color. 
A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called also inulin. See Inulin. 
An evergreen shrub or small tree (Ilex cassine) of the southern United States, bearing red drupes and having soft, white, close- grained wood; -- called also dahoon holly. 
Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as, daily labor; a daily bulletin. Give us this day our daily bread. Matt. vi. 11. Bunyan has told us . . . that in New England his dream was the daily subject of the conversation of thousands. Macaulay. 
A publication which appears regularly every day; as, the morning dailies. 
Every day; day by day; as, a thing happens daily. 
The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.daimyo The daimios, or territorial nobles, resided in Yedo and were divided into four classes. Am. Cyc. 
Something of exquisite taste; a dainty. [Obs.] -- a. 
Any of several valuable estates of the Egyptian khedive or his family. The most important are the Da"i*ra Sa"ni*eh, or Sa"ni*yeh, and the Da"i*ra Khas"sa, administered by the khedive's European bondholders, and known collectively as the Daira, or the Daira estates. 
The business of conducting a dairy. 
Full of daisies; adorned with daisies. "The daisied green." Langhorne. The grass all deep and daisied. G. Eliot. 
Post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- spelt also dawk, and dauk. [India] Dak boat, a mail boat. Percy Smith. -- Dak bungalow, a traveler's rest-house at the and of a dak stage. -- To travel by dak, to travel by relays of palanquines or other carriage, as fast as the post along a road. 
Split pulse, esp. of Cajanus Indicus. [East Indies] 
One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to the inhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc. Macaulay. 
imp. of Delve. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A rapid, esp. one where the channel is narrowed between rock walls. [Northwestern U. S. & Canada] 
A tuft or clump. [Obs.] Tusser. 
To delay unnecessarily; to while away. Dallying off the time with often skirmishes. Knolles. 
A firebrick wall, or a stone, which forms the front of the hearth of a blast furnace. Dam plate (Blast Furnace), an iron plate in front of the dam, to strengthen it. 
The estimated reparation in money for detriment or injury sustained; a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to one party, for a wrong or injury actually done to him by another. 
To ocassion damage to the soudness, goodness, or value of; to hurt; to injure; to impair. He . . . came up to the English admiral and gave him a broadside, with which he killed many of his men and damaged the ship. Clarendon. 
To receive damage or harm; to be injured or impaired in soudness or value; as. some colors in damage in sunlight. 
A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax. The species found in Palestine and Syria is Hyrax Syriacus; that of Northern Africa is H. Brucei; -- called also ashkoko, dassy, and rock rabbit. See Cony, and Hyrax. 
See Dammar. 
A native of Damaraland, German Southwest Africa. The Damaras include an important and warlike Bantu tribe, and the Hill Damaras, who are Hottentots and mixed breeds hostile to the Bantus. 
To decorate in a way peculiar to Damascus or attributed to Damascus; particularly: (a) with flowers and rich designs, as silk; (b) with inlaid lines of gold, etc., or with a peculiar marking or "water," as metal. See Damaskeen. Mingled metal damasked o'er with gold. Dryde On the soft, downy bank, damasked with flowers. Milton. 
A cruciferrous plant (Hesperis matronalis), remarkable for its fragrance, especially toward the close of the day; -- called also rocket and dame's violet. Loudon. 
To doom to punishment in the future world; to consign to perdition; to curse. 
To invoke damnation; to curse. "While I inwardly damn." Goldsmith. 
Procuring or causing loss; mischievous; injurious. 
Harm; detriment, either to character or property. 
A gaseous prodact, formed in coal mines, old wells, pints, etc. Choke damp, a damp consisting principally of carboniCarbonic acid, under Carbonic. -- Damp sheet, a curtain in a mine gallery to direct air currents and prevent accumulation of gas. -- Fire damp, a damp consisting chiefly of light carbureted hydrogen; -- so called from its tendence to explode when mixed with atmospheric air and brought into contact with flame. 
To become damp; to deaden. Byron. 
That which damps or checks; as: (a) A valve or movable plate in the flue or other part of a stove, furnace, etc., used to check or regulate the draught of air. (b) A contrivance, as in a pianoforte, to deaden vibrations; or, as in other pieces of mechanism, to check some action at a particular time. Nor did Sabrina's presence seem to act as any damper at the modest little festivities. W. Black. 
To damn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An attachment to a millstone spindle for shaking the hoppe 
A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety of the Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum. 
A title of honor equivalent to master, or sir. [Obs.] Old Dan Geoffry, in gently spright The pure wellhead of poetry did dwell. Spenser. What time Dan Abraham left the Chaldee land. Thomson. 
A small truck or sledge used in coal mines. 
To cause to dance, or move nimbly or merrily about, or up and down; to dandle. To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind. Shak. Thy grandsire loved thee well; Many a time he danced thee on his knee. Shak. To dance attendance, to come and go obsequiously; to be or remain in waiting, at the beck and call of another, with a view to please or gain favor. A man of his place, and so near our favor, To dance attendance on their lordships' pleasure. Shak. 
A tune by which dancing is regulated, as the minuet, the waltz, the cotillon, etc. 
One who dances or who practices dancing. The merry dancers, beams of the northern lights when they rise and fall alternately without any considerable change of length. See Aurora borealis, under Aurora. 
Same as Dancetté. 
To wander about; to saunter; to talk incoherently. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A boatman; an oarsman. [India] 
One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also Dandie Dinmont. 
One who dandles or fondles. 
A bantam fowl. 
A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark. Great Dane. (Zoöl.) See Danish dog, under Danish. 
imp. of Ding. [Obs.] 
To dash. [Obs.] Till she, o'ercome with anguish, shame, and rage, Danged down to hell her loathsome carriage. Marlowe. 
To endanger. [Obs.] Shak. 
To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion. he'd rather on a gibbet dangle Than miss his dear delight, to wrangle. Hudibras. From her lifted hand Dangled a length of ribbon. Tennyson. To dangle about or after, to hang upon importunately; to court the favor of; to beset. The Presbyterians, and other fanatics that dangle after them, are well inclined to pull down the present establishment. Swift. 
To cause to dangle; to swing, as something suspended loosely; as, to dangle the feet. And the bridegroom stood dangling his bonnet and plume. Sir W. Scott. 
A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness of judgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge. A Daniel come to judgment. Shak. 
Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country. -- n. 
One of a secret association of Mormons, bound by an oath to obey the heads of the church in all things. [U. S.] 
Damp; moist; humid; wet. Now that the fields are dank and ways are mire. Milton. Cheerless watches on the cold, dank ground. Trench. 
Moisture; humidity; water. [Obs.] 
A small silver coin current in Persia. 
Danish. [Obs.] 
To drop the bait gently on the surface of the water. To catch a club by dapping with a grasshoper. Walton. 
A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and with fragrant blossoms. 
Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress or appearance; lively. He wondered how so many provinces could be held in subjection by such a dapper little man. Milton. The dapper ditties that I wont devise. Spenser. Sharp-nosed, dapper steam yachts. Julian Hawthorne. 
One of the spots on a dappled animal. He has . . . as many eyes on his body as my gray mare hath dapples. Sir P. Sidney. 
To variegate with spots; to spot. The gentle day, . . . Dapples the drowsy east with spots of gray. Shak. The dappled pink and blushing rose. Prior. 
A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothing ceilings, etc. 
To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to be bold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture. I dare do all that may become a man; Who dares do more is none. Shak. Why then did not the ministers use their new law Bacause they durst not, because they could not. Macaulay. Who dared to sully her sweet love with suspicion. Thackeray. The tie of party was stronger than the tie of blood, because a partisan was more ready to dare without asking why. Jowett (Thu 
To lurk; to lie hid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To terrify; to daunt. [Obs.] For I have done those follies, those mad mischiefs, Would dare a woman. Beau. & Fl. To dare larks, to catch them by producing terror through to use of mirrors, scarlet cloth, a hawk, etc., so that they lie still till a net is thrown over them. Nares. 
A small fish; the dace. 
One who dares or defies. 
Boldness; fearlessness; adventurousness; also, a daring act. 
Bold; fearless; adventurous; as, daring spirits. -- Dar"ing*ly, adv. -- Dar"ing*ness, n. 
A dark shade or dark passage in a painting, engraving, or the like; as, the light and darks are well contrasted. The lights may serve for a repose to the darks, and the darks to the lights. Dryden. 
To darken to obscure. [Obs.] Milton. 
To grow or darker. 
To grow dark; to show indistinctly. Thackeray. 
Dark; gloomy; obscure; shaded; cheerless. [Poetic] He brought him through a darksome narrow pass To a broad gate, all built of beaten gold. Spenser. 
A negro. [Sleng] 
To mend as a rent or hole, with interlacing stitches of yarn or thread by means of a needle; to sew together with yarn or thread. He spent every day ten hours in his closet, in darning his stockins. Swift. Darning last. See under Last. -- Darning needle. (a) A long, strong needle for mending holes or rents, especially in stockings. (b) (Zoöl.) Any species of dragon fly, having a long, cylindrical body, resembling a needle. These flies are harmless and without stings. 
A place mended by darning. 
A colloquial euphemism for Damn. 
Any grass of the genus Lolium, esp. the Lolium temulentum (bearded darnel), the grains of which have been reputed poisonous. Other species, as Lolium perenne (rye grass or ray grass), and its variety L. Italicum (Italian rye grass), are highly esteemed for pasture and for making hay. 
One who mends by darning. 
The Egyptian sycamore (Ficus Sycamorus). See Sycamore. 
The European black tern. 
A fish; the dace. See Dace. Dart sac (Zoöl.), a sac connected with the reproductive organs of land snails, which contains a dart, or arrowlike structure. 
A kind of scab or ulceration on the skin of lambs. 
The snakebird, a water bird of the genus Plotus; -- so called because it darts out its long, snakelike neck at its prey. See Snakebird. 
To pierce or shoot through; to dart repeatedly: -- frequentative of dart. My star that dartles the red and the blue. R. Browning. 
A thin layer of peculiar contractile tissue directly beneath the skin of the scrotum. 
See Daze. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To become dim-sighted; to become dazed or dazzled. [Obs.] Chauscer. 
To rust with violence; to move impetuously; to strike violently; as, the waves dash upon rocks. [He] dashed through thick and thin. Dryden. On each hand the gushing waters play, And down the rough cascade all dashing fall. Thomson. 
A mark or line [--], in writing or printing, denoting a sudden break, stop, or transition in a sentence, or an abrupt change in its construction, a long or significant pause, or an unexpected or epigrammatic turn of sentiment. Dashes are also sometimes used instead of marks or parenthesis. John Wilson. 
Bold; spirited; showy. The dashing and daring spirit is preferable to the listless. T. Campbell. 
Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable; showy. [Colloq.] 
See Dasewe [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Datum. 
An officer in the pope's court, having charge of the Dataria. 
The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself. 
To have beginning; to begin; to be dated or reckoned; -- with from. The Batavian republic dates from the successes of the French arms. E. Everett. 
One who dates. 
Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object, and is generally indicated in English by to or for with the objective. 
The dative case. See Dative, a., 
The quantities or relations which are assumed to be given in any problem. Datum line (Surv.), the horizontal or base line, from which the heights of points are reckoned or measured, as in the plan of a railway, etc. 
A genus of solanaceous plants, with large funnel-shaped flowers and a four-celled, capsular fruit. 
To smear; to play the flatterer. His conscience . . . will not daub nor flatter. South. 
A picture coarsely executed. Did you . . . take a look at the grand picture . . . 'T is a melancholy daub, my lord. Sterne. 
A pad or ball of rags, covered over with canvas, for inking plates; a dabber. 
Smeary; viscous; glutinous; adhesive. "Dauby wax." 
See Dawk, v. t., to cut or gush. 
A variant of Dan, a title of honor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who daunts. 
The striped quagga, or Burchell's zebra, of South Africa (Asinus Burchellii); -- called also peechi, or peetsi. 
Curved arms of timber or iron, projecting over a ship's side of stern, having tackle to raise or lower a boat, swing it in on deck, rig it out for lowering, etc.; -- called also boat davits. Totten. 
A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius. 
A rare metallic element found in platinum ore. It is a white malleable substance. Symbol Da. Atomic weight 154. 
A European bird of the Crow family (Corvus monedula), often nesting in church towers and ruins; a jackdaw. The loud daw, his throat displaying, draw The whole assembly of his fellow daws. Waller. 
To dawn. [Obs.] See Dawn. 
To waste time in trifling employment; to trifle; to saunter. Come some evening and dawdle over a dish of tea with me. Johnson. We . . . dawdle up and down Pall Mall. Thackeray. 
To waste by trifling; as, to dawdle away a whole morning. 
A dawdler. Colman & Carrick. 
Day. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Like a daw. 
See Dak. 
To cut or mark with an incision; to gash. Moxon. 
A hollow, crack, or cut, in timber. Moxon. 
A hydrous carbonate of alumina and soda, occuring in white, bladed crustals. 
See Dyaks. 
A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera, of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; the ephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day in the winged or adult state. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral. 
To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, or with fear; to confuse; to benumb. While flashing beams do daze his feeble eyen. Spenser. Such souls, Whose sudden visitations daze the world. Sir H. Taylor. He comes out of the room in a dazed state, that is an odd though a sufficient substitute for interest. Dickens. 
A glittering stone. 
A light of dazzling brilliancy. 
An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certain subordinate duties varying in different communions. In the Roman Catholic and Episcopal churches, a person admitted to the lowest order in the ministry, subordinate to the bishops and priests. In Presbyterian churches, he is subordinate to the minister and elders, and has charge of certain duties connected with the communion service and the care of the poor. In Congregational churches, he is subordinate to the pastor, and has duties as in the Presbyterian church. 
To read aloud each line of (a psalm or hymn) before singing it, -- usually with off. [Colloq. New. Eng.] See Line, v. t. 
Cut off from the rights of a citizen; deprived of the power of enjoying the rights of property; as, one banished or becoming a monk is civilly dead. 
To a degree resembling death; to the last degree; completely; wholly. [Colloq.] I was tired of reading, and dead sleepy. Dickens. Dead drunk, so drunk as to be unconscious. 
To make dead; to deaden; to deprive of life, force, or vigor. [Obs.] Heaven's stern decree, With many an ill, hath numbed and deaded me. Chapman. 
To die; to lose life or force. [Obs.] So iron, as soon as it is out of the fire, deadeth straightway. Bacon. 
One who, or that which, deadens or checks. 
The state of being destitute of life, vigor, spirit, activity, etc.; dullness; inertness; languor; coldness; vapidness; indifference; as, the deadness of a limb, a body, or a tree; the deadness of an eye; deadness of the affections; the deadness of beer or cider; deadness to the world, and the like. 
The substances which inclose the ore on every side. 
To deafen. [Obs.] Dryden. 
To render impervious to sound, as a partition or floor, by filling the space within with mortar, by lining with paper, etc. 
Without sense of sounds; obscurely. 
Lonely; solitary. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
The division of a piece of timber made by sawing; a board or plank; particularly, a board or plank of fir or pine above seven inches in width, and exceeding six feet in length. If narrower than this, it is called a batten; if shorter, a deal end. 
To whiten. [Obs.] Cockeram. 
A long, thin fish of the arctic seas (Trachypterus arcticus). 
Share dealt. [Obs.] 
The office of a dean. I dont't value your deanship a straw. Swift. 
A dear one; lover; sweetheart. That kiss I carried from thee, dear. Shak. 
Dearly; at a high price. If thou attempt it, it will cost thee dear. Shak. 
To endear. [Obs.] Shelton. 
variant of Dere, v. t. & n. [Obs.] 
Same as Deary. Dickens. 
Secret; lonely; solitary; dreadful. [Obs.] Shak. -- Dearn"ly, adv. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Darn. [Obs.] 
Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack of food on account of failure of crops; famine. There came a dearth over all the land of Egypt. Acts vii. 11. He with her press'd, she faint with dearth. Shak. Dearth of plot, and narrowness of imagination. Dryden. 
A dear; a darling. [Familiar] 
See Dais. [Scot.] 
Loss of spiritual life. To be death. Rom. viii. 6. 
To stun or stupefy with noise; to deafen. [Scot.] 
To cut off from entrance, as if by a bar or barrier; to preclude; to hinder from approach, entry, or enjoyment; to shut out or exclude; to deny or refuse; -- with from, and sometimes with of. Yet not so strictly hath our Lord imposed Labor, as to debar us when we need Refreshment. Milton. Their wages were so low as to debar them, not only from the comforts but from the common decencies of civilized life. Buckle. 
To deprive of the beard. [Obs.] Bailey. 
To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore. 
To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth, dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate; to abase; as, to debase the character by crime; to debase the mind by frivolity; to debase style by vulgar words. The coin which was adulterated and debased. Hale. It is a kind of taking God's name in vain to debase religion with such frivolous disputes. Hooker. And to debase the sons, exalts the sires. Pope. 
Full of contention; contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To conquer. [Obs.] Milton. 
Weak. [Obs.] Shak. 
A debt; an entry on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; -- mostly used adjectively; as, the debit side of an account. 
To enter on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; as, to debit the amount of goods sold. 
The cavity from which the earth for parapets, etc. (remblai), is taken. 
To debauch. [Obs.] "A deboshed lady." Beau. & Fl. 
Broken and detached fragments, taken collectively; especially, fragments detached from a rock or mountain, and piled up at the base. 
An action at law to recover a certain specified sum of money alleged to be due. Burrill. Bond debt, Book debt, etc. See under Bond, Book, etc. -- Debt of nature, death. 
Indebted; obliged to. [R.] I stand debted to this gentleman. Shak. 
One to whom a debt is due; creditor; -- correlative to debtor. Blackstone. 
One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative to creditor. [I 'll] bring your latter hazard back again, And thankfully rest debtor for the first. Shak. In Athens an insolvent debtor became slave to his creditor. Mitford. Debtors for our lives to you. Tennyson. 
A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance before the public, as of an actor or public speaker. 
A decade. Averill was a decad and a half his elder. Tennyson. 
A group or division of ten; esp., a period of ten years; a decennium; as, a decade of years or days; a decade of soldiers; the second decade of Livy. [Written also decad.] During this notable decade of years. Gladstone. 
Departure from a camp; a marching off. 
A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H22, of the paraffin series, including several isomeric modifications. 
Used of the side of the choir on which the dean's stall is placed; decanal; -- correlative to cantoris; as, the decanal, or decani, side. 
To pour off gently, as liquor, so as not to disturb the sediment; or to pour from one vessel into another; as, to decant wine. 
To discard. [Obs.] You have cast those by, decarded them. J. Fletcher. 
To pass gradually from a sound, prosperous, or perfect state, to one of imperfection, adversity, or dissolution; to waste away; to decline; to fail; to become weak, corrupt, or disintegrated; to rot; to perish; as, a tree decays; fortunes decay; hopes decay. Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth accumulates and men decay. Goldsmith. 
Fallen, as to physical or social condition; affected with decay; rotten; as, decayed vegetation or vegetables; a decayed fortune or gentleman. -- De*cay"ed*ness, n. 
To withdraw. [Obs.] Fuller. 
Any trick, collusion, contrivance, false representation, or underhand practice, used to defraud another. When injury is thereby effected, an action of deceit, as it called, lies for compensation. 
One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H20, of the ethylene series. 
The action of decentralizing, or the state of being decentralized. "The decentralization of France." J. P. Peters. 
To decree; to adjudge. 
To pluck off; to crop; to gather. [Obs.] 
To determine; to form a definite opinion; to come to a conclusion; to give decision; as, the court decided in favor of the defendant. Who shall decide, when doctors disagree Pope. 
A French coin, the tenth part of a franc, equal to about two cents. 
One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H15, of the acetylene series; -- called also decenylene. 
The upper part or top of a mansard roof or curb roof when made nearly flat. 
Same as Deckle. 
A separate thin wooden frame used to form the border of a hand mold, or a curb of India rubber or other material which rests on, and forms the edge of, the mold in a paper machine and determines the width of the paper. [Spelt also deckel, and deckle.] 
Capable of being boiled or digested. 
To decorate; to beautify. [Obs.] To decore and beautify the house of God. E. Hall. 
To lead into danger by artifice; to lure into a net or snare; to entrap; to insnare; to allure; to entice; as, to decoy troops into an ambush; to decoy ducks into a net. Did to a lonely cot his steps decoy. Thomson. E'en while fashion's brightest arts decoy, The heart, distrusting, asks if this be joy. Goldsmith. 
A duck used to lure wild ducks into a decoy; hence, a person employed to lure others into danger. Beau. & Fl. 
An edict or law made by a council for regulating any business within their jurisdiction; as, the decrees of ecclesiastical councils. 
To make decrees; -- used absolutely. Father eternal! thine is to decree; Mine, both in heaven and earth to do thy will. Milton. 
To decrease. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To cry down; to censure as faulty, mean, or worthless; to clamor against; to blame clamorously; to discredit; to disparage. For small errors they whole plays decry. Dryden. Measures which are extolled by one half of the kingdom are naturally decried by the other. Addison. 
To cut short; to curtail. [Obs.] Bale. 
A set or squad of ten men under a decurion. Sir W. Raleigh. 
A hydrocarbon radical, C10H21, never existing alone, but regarded as the characteristic constituent of a number of compounds of the paraffin series. 
A division, at one end of a tennis court, for spectators. 
Dead. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Inference; deduction; thing deduced. [R.] Dryden. 
Of or pertaining to deduction; capable of being deduced from premises; deducible. All knowledge of causes is deductive. Glanvill. Notions and ideas . . . used in a deductive process. Whewell. 
Delight; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Dead. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A sealed instrument in writing, on paper or parchment, duly executed and delivered, containing some transfer, bargain, or contract. 
To convey or transfer by deed; as, he deeded all his estate to his eldest son. [Colloq. U. S.] 
Industrious; active. [R.] Cowper. 
Opinion; judgment. [Obs.] Shak. 
To a great depth; with depth; far down; profoundly; deeply. Deep-versed in books, and shallow in himself. Milton. Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring. Pope. 
To become deeper; as, the water deepens at every cast of the lead; the plot deepens. His blood-red tresses deepening in the sun. Byron. 
Having a loud and sonorous voice. "Deep-mouthed dogs." Dryden. 
A ruminant of the genus Cervus, of many species, and of related genera of the family Cervidæ. The males, and in some species the females, have solid antlers, often much branched, which are shed annually. Their flesh, for which they are hunted, is called venison. 
Dice. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A dais. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An invocation of, or address to, the Supreme Being. 
A goddess. [Obs.] Croft. 
See Dev. 
To destroy; to make null. [Obs.] [Profane scoffing] doth . . . deface the reverence of religion. Bacon. For all his power was utterly defaste [defaced]. Spenser. 
To cause fail. [Obs.] 
To lop off; to bate. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Dishonor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Changed in features; deformed. [R.] Features when defeatured in the . . . way I have described. De Quincey. 
To fail; to become deficient. [Obs.] "Defected honor." Warner. 
To injure; to damage. "None can my life defect." [R.] Troubles of Q. Elizabeth (1639). 
To deny the right of the plaintiff in regard to (the suit, or the wrong charged); to oppose or resist, as a claim at law; to contest, as a suit. Burrill. 
To put off; to postpone to a future time; to delay the execution of; to delay; to withhold. Defer the spoil of the city until night. Shak. God . . . will not long defer To vindicate the glory of his name. Milton. 
To put off; to delay to act; to wait. Pius was able to defer and temporize at leisure. J. A. Symonds. 
To yield deference to the wishes of another; to submit to the opinion of another, or to authority; -- with to. The house, deferring to legal right, acquiesced. Bancroft. 
One who dares and defies; a contemner; as, a defier of the laws. 
To march off in a line, file by file; to file off. 
Same as Defilade. 
The act of defilading a fortress, or of raising the exterior works in order to protect the interior. See Defilade. 
The protection of the interior walls of a fortification from an enfilading fire, as by covering them, or by a high parapet on the exposed side. 
To determine; to decide. [Obs.] 
To fix; to fasten; to establish. [Obs.] "To defix their princely seat . . . in that extreme province." Hakluyt. 
To flow down. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
Downward flow. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Deftly. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Deformed; misshapen; shapeless; horrid. [Obs.] Sight so deform what heart of rock could long Dry-eyed behold Milton. 
To deprive of some right, interest, or property, by a deceitful device; to withhold from wrongfully; to injure by embezzlement; to cheat; to overreach; as, to defraud a servant, or a creditor, or the state; -- with of before the thing taken or withheld. We have defrauded no man. 2 Cor. vii. 2. Churches seem injured and defrauded of their rights. Hooker. 
The act of defraying; payment; as, the defrayal of necessary costs. 
Apt; fit; dexterous; clever; handy; spruce; neat. [Archaic or Poetic] "The deftest way." Shak. "Deftest feats." Gay. The limping god, do deft at his new ministry. Dryden. Let me be deft and debonair. Byron. 
Aptly; fitly; dexterously; neatly. "Deftly dancing." Drayton. Thyself and office deftly show. Shak. 
To disorder; to make shapeless. [Obs.] Shak. 
A challenge. [Obs.] Dryden. 
Unconstrained; easy; free. Vanbrugh. 
To extract the germs from, as from wheat grains. 
A certain distance or remove in the line of descent, determining the proximity of blood; one remove in the chain of relationship; as, a relation in the third or fourth degree. In the 11th century an opinion began to gain ground in Italy, that third cousins might marry, being in the seventh degree according to the civil law. Hallam. 
A small South American rodent (Octodon Cumingii), of the family Octodontidæ. 
To deprive of, or free from, gum; as, to degum ramie. 
To taste. [Obs.] Cockeram. 
To deprive of horns; to prevent the growth or the horns of (cattle) by burning their ends soon after they start. See Dishorn. "Dehorning cattle." Farm Journal (1886). 
Out of; without; foreign to; out of the agreement, record, will, or other instrument. 
All sorts of outworks in general, at a distance from the main works; any advanced works for protection or cover. Farrow. 
To urge to abstain or refrain; to dissuade. [Obs.] The apostles vehemently dehort us from unbelief. Bp. Ward. "Exhort" remains, but dehort, a word whose place neither "dissuade" nor any other exactly supplies, has escaped us. Trench. 
To remove the husk from. [Obs.] "Wheat dehusked upon the floor." Drant. 
To think worthy; to vouchsafe; to condescend; -- followed by an infinitive. O deign to visit our forsaken seats. Pope. Yet not Lord Cranstone deigned she greet. Sir W. Scott. Round turned he, as not deigning Those craven ranks to see. Macaulay. 
Devil; -- spelt also deel. [Scot.] Deil's buckie. See under Buckie. 
See Dais. 
The doctrine or creed of a deist; the belief or system of those who acknowledge the existence of one God, but deny revelation. 
One who believes in the existence of a God, but denies revealed religion; a freethinker. 
Dejected. [Obs.] 
See Deckle. 
Share; portion; part. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To dilate. [Obs.] Goodwin. 
A putting off or deferring; procrastination; lingering inactivity; stop; detention; hindrance. Without any delay, on the morrow I sat on the judgment seat. Acts xxv. 17. The government ought to be settled without the delay of a day. Macaulay. 
To move slowly; to stop for a time; to linger; to tarry. There seem to be certain bounds to the quickness and slowness of the succession of those ideas, . . . beyond which they can neither delay nor hasten. Locke. 
Erase; remove; -- a direction to cancel something which has been put in type; usually expressed by a peculiar form of d, thus: . 
To erase; to cancel; to delete; to mark for omission. 
To deal; to divide; to distribute. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit. I have, therefore, . . . inserted eleven stanzas which do not appear in Sir Walter Scott's version, and have deleted eight. Aytoun. 
A mine; a quarry; a pit dug; a ditch. [Written also delft, and delve.] [Obs.] The delfts would be so flown with waters, that no gins or machines could . . . keep them dry. Ray. 
Same as Delftware. 
Same as Delftware. 
An offense or transgression against law; (Scots Law) an offense of a lesser degree; a misdemeanor. Every regulation of the civil code necessarily implies a delict in the event of its violation. Jeffrey. 
Capable of being, or liable to be, delineated. Feltham. 
Delight. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A shortened form of Academia della Crusca, an academy in Florescence, Italy, founded in the 16th century, especially for conversing the purity of the Italian language. 
The duykerbok. 
A special breed of the dromedary used for rapid traveling; the swift camel; -- called also herire, and maharik. 
Delftware. Five nothings in five plates of delph. Swift. 
The drain on the land side of a sea embankment. Knight. 
A tract of land shaped like the letter delta (as, the delta of the Ganges, of the Nile, or of the Mississippi. 
Deltaic. 
One who deludes; a deceiver; an impostor. 
An East Indian carnivorous mammal (Prionodon gracilis), resembling the civets, but without scent pouches. It is handsomely spotted. 
To dig or labor with a spade, or as with a spade; to labor as a drudge. Delve may I not: I shame to beg. Wyclif (Luke xvi. 3). 
A place dug; a pit; a ditch; a den; a cave. Which to that shady delve him brought at last The very tigers from their delves Look out. Moore. 
One who digs, as with a spade. 
See Demesne. 
To call into court; to summon. Burrill. 
To make a demand; to inquire. The soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do Luke iii. 14. 
That may be demanded or claimed. "All sums demandable." Bacon. 
A territorial subdivision of Attica (also of modern Greece), corresponding to a township. Jowett (Thucyd). 
Resources; means. [Obs.] You know How narrow our demeans are. Massinger. 
To deprive of reason; to make mad. [R.] Bale. 
Demented; dementate. [R.] J. H. Newman. 
See Demy, n. 
The conveyance or transfer of an estate, either in fee for life or for years, most commonly the latter. Bouvier. 
To convey, as an estate, be lease; to lease. 
Cast down; humble; submissive. [Obs.] He down descended like a most demiss And abject thrall. Spenser. 
A small cup for, or of, black coffee. 
A spirit, or immaterial being, holding a middle place between men and deities in pagan mythology. The demon kind is of an inSydenham. 
To reduce to a lower grade, as in school. 
To damn; to condemn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To interpose a demurrer. See Demurrer, 2. 
Stop; pause; hesitation as to proceeding; suspense of decision or action; scruple. All my demurs but double his attacks; At last he whispers, "Do; and we go snacks." Pope. 
To look demurely. [Obs.] Shak. 
Pertaining to, or made of, the size of paper called demy; as, a demy book. 
A narrow glen; a ravine; a dell. [Old Eng. & Scotch] Shak. 
To live in, or as in, a den. The sluggish salvages that den below. G. Fletcher. 
Containing ten; tenfold; proceeding by tens; as, the denary, or decimal, scale. 
The or process of denationalizing. 
To deny. [Obs.] That with great rage he stoutly doth denay. Spenser. 
Denial; refusal. [Obs.] Shak. 
A specific epidemic disease attended with high fever, cutaneous eruption, and severe pains in the head and limbs, resembling those of rheumatism; -- called also breakbone fever. It occurs in India, Egypt, the West Indies, etc., is of short duration, and rarely fatal. 
Denial. [Obs.] E. Hall. 
One who denies; as, a denier of a fact, or of the faith, or of Christ. 
A small copper coin of insignificant value. My dukedom to a beggarly denier. Shak. 
A coarse cotton drilling used for overalls, etc. 
To make a denizen; to confer the rights of citizenship upon; to naturalize. [Obs.] There was a private act made for denizing the children of Richard HillStrype. 
A light, open, two-wheeled carriage for one horse; a kind of gig. ("The term and vehicle common about 1825." Latham.) 
Sign; indication. [R.] 
In a dense, compact manner. 
To make a dent upon; to indent. The houses dented with bullets. Macaulay. 
A tooth, as of a card, a gear wheel, etc. Knight. 
Formed by the aid of the teeth; -- said of certain articulations and the letters representing them; as, d t are dental letters. Dental formula (Zoöl.), a brief notation used by zoölogists to denote the number and kind of teeth of a mammal. -- Dental surgeon, a dentist. 
A marine mollusk of the genus Dentalium, with a curved conical shell resembling a tooth. See Dentalium. 
Indented; impressed with little hollows. 
Same as Dentil. 
An edible European marine fish (Sparus dentex, or Dentex vulgaris) of the family Percidæ. 
A small square block or projection in cornices, a number of which are ranged in an ornamental band; -- used particularly in the Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite orders. 
To divest of all covering; to make bare or naked; to strip; to divest; as, to denude one of clothing, or lands. 
To answer in Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. Gen. xviii. 15. 
A kind of cedar (Cedrus Deodara), growing in India, highly valued for its size and beauty as well as for its timber, and also grown in England as an ornamental tree. 
Divisible. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Worthy of being depended on; trustworthy. "Dependable friendships." Pope. 
Depicted. Lydgate. 
Depicted. Lydgate. 
A painting or depicting; a representation. 
To open out; to unfold; to spread out (a body of troops) in such a way that they shall display a wider front and less depth; -- the reverse of ploy; as, to deploy a column of troops into line of battle. 
To testify under oath; to depose; to bear witness. [A Scotticism] The fairy Glorians, whose credibility on this point can not be called in question, depones to the confinement of Merlin in a tree. Dunlop. 
Behavior; carrige; demeanor; deportment. [Obs.] "Goddesslike deport." Milton. 
To bear witness; to testify under oath; to make deposition. Then, seeing't was he that made you to despose, Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous. Shak. 
Deeper. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The number of simple elements which an abstract conception or notion includes; the comprehension or content. 
To depurate; to purify. [Obs.] He shall first be depured and cleansed before that he shall be laid up for pure gold in the treasures of God. Sir T. More. 
A person deputed; a deputy. [Scot.] 
To diminish the quantity of; to disquantity. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
To cause to run off from the rails of a railroad, as a locomotive. Lardner. 
Disorder; merriment. [Obs.] 
A large European food fish (Lichia glauca). 
A massive variety of fluor spar, found in Derbyshire, England, and wrought into vases and other ornamental work. 
To hurt; to harm; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Harm. [Obs.] Robert of Brunne. 
Strong; powerful; fierce. [Obs.] -- Derf"ly, adv. [Obs.] 
To laugh at with contempt; to laugh to scorn; to turn to ridicule or make sport of; to mock; to scoff at. And the Pharisees, also, . . . derided him. Luke xvi. 14. Sport that wrinkled Care derides. And Laughter holding both his sides. Milton. 
To obtain one substance from another by actual or theoretical substitution; as, to derive an organic acid from its corresponding hydrocarbon. 
To flow; to have origin; to descend; to proceed; to be deduced. Shak. Power from heaven Derives, and monarchs rule by gods appointed. Prior. 
Dark. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Dermis. 
See Dermis. 
Pertaining to the dermis or true skin. 
Pertaining to the dermis; dermal. Underneath each nail the deep or dermic layer of the integument is peculiarly modified. Huxley. Dermic remedies (Med.), such as act through the skin. 
The deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin or epidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, and enderon. See Skin, and Illust. in Appendix. 
A gatepost or doorpost. [Local Eng.] C. Kingsley. 
To hide; to skulk. [Scot.] He at length escaped them by derning himself in a foxearth. H. Miller. 
Secretly; grievously; mournfully. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Dearer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Dearth; scarcity. [Obs.] Spenser. 
, Discovery or view, as of an army seen at a distance. [Obs.] Near, and on speedy foot; the main descry Stands on the hourly thought. Shak. 
That which is deserved; the reward or the punishment justly due; claim to recompense, usually in a good sense; right to reward; merit. According to their deserts will I judge them. Ezek. vii. 27. Andronicus, surnamed Pius For many good and great deserts to Rome. Shak. His reputation falls far below his desert. A. Hamilton. 
Of or pertaining to a desert; forsaken; without life or cultivation; unproductive; waste; barren; wild; desolate; solitary; as, they landed on a desert island. He . . . went aside privately into a desert place. Luke ix. 10. Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness on the desert air. Gray. Desert flora (Bot.), the assemblage of plants growing naturally in a desert, or in a dry and apparently unproductive place. -- Desert hare (Zoöl.), a small hare (Lepus sylvaticus, var. Arizonæ) inhabiting the deserts of the Western United States. -- Desert mouse (Zoöl.), an American mouse (Hesperomys eremicus), living in the Western deserts. 
To abandon (the service) without leave; to forsake in violation of duty; to abscond from; as, to desert the army; to desert one's colors. 
To abandon a service without leave; to quit military service without permission, before the expiration of one's term; to abscond. The soldiers . . . deserted in numbers. Bancroft. 
To form a design or designs; to plan. Design for, to intend to go to. [Obs.] "From this city she designed for Collin [Cologne]." Evelyn. 
The invention and conduct of the subject; the disposition of every part, and the general order of the whole. Arts of design, those into which the designing of artistic forms and figures enters as a principal part, as architecture, painting, engraving, sculpture. -- School of design, one in which are taught the invention and delineation of artistic or decorative figures, patterns, and the like. 
Filled with desire; eager. [R.] The desireful troops. Godfrey (1594). 
To cease to proceed or act; to stop; to forbear; -- often with from. Never desisting to do evil. E. Hall. To desist from his bad practice. Massinger. Desist (thou art discern'd, And toil'st in vain). Milton. 
To shut up, as in a desk; to treasure. 
An amphibious, insectivorous mammal found in Russia (Myogale moschata). It is allied to the moles, but is called muscrat by some English writers. [Written also dæsman.] 
The station or government of a despot; also, the domain of a despot. Freeman. 
Dais. [Obs.] 
Destiny. [Obs.] Marston. 
To select; to borrow. [Obs.] Sir. M. Hale. 
To push asunder; to come off or separate from anything; to disengage. [A vapor] detaching, fold by fold, From those still heights. Tennyson. 
The selection for a particular service of a person or a body of men; hence, the person or the body of men so selected. Detail drawing, a drawing of the full size, or on a large scale, of some part of a building, machine, etc. -- In detail, in subdivisions; part by part; item; circumstantially; with particularity. 
To tell off or appoint for a particular service, as an officer, a troop, or a squadron. 
Detention. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Detected. [Obs.] Fabyan. 
Capable of being detected or found out; as, parties not detectable. "Errors detectible at a glance." Latham. 
That which locks or unlocks a movement; a catch, pawl, or dog; especially, in clockwork, the catch which locks and unlocks the wheelwork in striking. 
To prevent by fear; hence, to hinder or prevent from action by fear of consequences, or difficulty, risk, etc. Addison. Potent enemies tempt and deter us from our duty. Tillotson. My own face deters me from my glass. Prior. 
Capacity of being odious. [R.] Carlyle. 
To turn form the original or plain meaning; to pervert; to wrest. Hammond. 
A turning; a circuitous route; a deviation from a direct course; as, the detours of the Mississippi. 
Debt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A present of books given to a meritorious undergraduate student as a prize. [Harvard Univ., U. S.] 
To throw down. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
To turn away. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 
Two; a card or a die with two spots; as, the deuce of hearts. 
The devil; a demon. [A euphemism, written also deuse.] [Low] 
Devilish; excessive; extreme. [Low] -- Deu"ced*ly, adv. 
To devastate. [Obs.] Bolingbroke. 
A deity; a divine being; a good spirit; an idol. [Written also dewata.] 
Deaf. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To be taken away, lost, or alienated, as a title or an estate. 
Bending down; sloping. [Obs.] 
Devexity. [Obs.] May (Lucan). 
; fem. of Deva. A goddess. 
Full of devices; inventive. [R.] A carpet, rich, and of deviceful thread. Chapman. 
A dish, as a bone with the meat, broiled and excessively peppered; a grill with Cayenne pepper. Men and women busy in baking, broiling, roasting oysters, and preparing devils on the gridiron. Sir W. Scott. 
A small water bird. See Dabchick. 
To give by will; -- used of real estate; formerly, also, of chattels. 
To form a scheme; to lay a plan; to contrive; to consider. I thought, devised, and Pallas heard my prayer. Pope. 
Device. See Device. [Obs.] 
To empty out; to remove. 
Duty; service owed; hence, due act of civility or respect; -- now usually in the plural; as, they paid their devoirs to the ladies. "Do now your devoid, young knights!" Chaucer. 
One of a breed of hardy cattle originating in the country of Devon, England. Those of pure blood have a deep red color. The small, longhorned variety, called North Devons, is distinguished by the superiority of its working oxen. 
Devoted; addicted; devout. [Obs.] Milton. 
A devotee. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 
A devotee. Dr. J. Scott. 
That may be devoured. 
Destitute of devotion. -- De*vout"less*ly, adv. -- De*vout"less*ness, n. 
To devote. [Obs.] Cowley. 
To disavow; to disclaim. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 
To wet with dew or as with dew; to bedew; to moisten; as with dew. The grasses grew A little ranker since they dewed them so. A. B. Saxton. 
Same as Due, or Duty. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Furnished with a dewlap. 
To ret or rot by the process called dewretting. 
To rot, as flax or hemp, by exposure to rain, dew, and sun. See Dewretting. 
Resembling a dew-covered surface; appearing as if covered with dew. 
On the right-hand side of a shield, i. e., towards the right hand of its wearer. To a spectator in front, as in a pictorial representation, this would be the left side. Dexter chief, or Dexter point (Her.), a point in the dexter upper corner of the shield, being in the dexter extremity of the chief, as A in the cut. -- Dexter base, a point in the dexter lower part or base of the shield, as B in the cut. 
A servant who has charge of the dairy; a dairymaid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The governor of Algiers; -- so called before the French conquest in 1830. 
To die. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A fierce, wild dog (Canis Dukhunensis), found in the mountains of India. It is remarkable for its propensity to hunt the tiger and other wild animals in packs. 
A Ceylonese boat. See Doni. 
A coasting vessel of Arabia, East Africa, and the Indian Ocean. It has generally but one mast and a lateen sail. [Also written dow.] 
Divalent; -- said of a base or radical as capable of saturating two acid monad radicals or a dibasic acid. Cf. Dibasic, a., and Biacid. 
An arch rising from the rim of a crown (rarely also of a coronet), and uniting with others over its center. Diadem lemur. (Zoöl.) See Indri. -- Diadem spider (Zoöl.), the garden spider. 
To adorn with a diadem; to crown. Not so, when diadem'd with rays divine. Pope. To terminate the evil, To diadem the right. R. H. Neale. 
To survey with a dial. Raymond. 
, Diana. [Poetic] 
The daughter of Jupiter and Latona; a virgin goddess who presided over hunting, chastity, and marriage; -- identified with the Greek goddess Artemis. And chaste Diana haunts the forest shade. Pope. Diana monkey (Zoöl.), a handsome, white-bearded monkey of West Africa (Cercopithecus Diana). 
Surface decoration of any sort which consists of the constant repetition of one or more simple figures or units of design evenly spaced. 
To draw flowers or figures, as upon cloth. "If you diaper on folds." Peacham. 
A register of daily events or transactions; a daily record; a journal; a blank book dated for the record of daily memoranda; as, a diary of the weather; a physician's diary. 
lasting for one day; as, a diary fever. [Obs.] "Diary ague." Bacon. 
One of the Diatomaceæ, a family of minute unicellular Algæ having a siliceous covering of great delicacy, each individual multiplying by spontaneous division. By some authors diatoms are called Bacillariæ, but this word is not in general use. 
To dip. [Prov. Eng.] Walton. 
A child's game, played with dib bones. 
A dibble. Halliwell. 
A pointed implement used to make holes in the ground in which no set out plants or to plant seeds. 
To dib or dip frequently, as in angling. Walton. 
One who, or that which, dibbles, or makes holes in the ground for seed. 
A sweet preparation or treacle of grape juice, much used in the East. Johnston. 
A functionary in ancient Athens answering nearly to the modern juryman. 
Small cubes used in gaming or in determining by chance; also, the game played with dice. See Die, n. Dice coal, a kind of coal easily splitting into cubical fragments. Brande & C. 
A box from which dice are thrown in gaming. Thackeray. 
A player at dice; a dice player; a gamester. As false as dicers' oaths. Shak. 
To ditch. [Obs.] 
The American black-throated bunting (Spiza Americana). 
To negotiate a dicker; to barter. [U.S.] "Ready to dicker. and to swap." Cooper. 
See Dictum. 
A plant with netveined leaves, and monocotyledonous embryos, belonging to the class Dictyogenæ, proposed by Lindley for the orders Dioscoreaceæ, Smilaceæ, Trilliaceæ, etc. 
of Do. 
A kind of triangular spade. [Obs.] 
To totter, as a child in walking. [Obs.] Quarles. 
To cheat or overreach. [Colloq.] Beaconsfield. 
Like or pertaining to the genus Didus, or the dodo. 
A shrewd trick; an antic; a caper. To cut a dido, to play a trick; to cut a caper; -- perhaps so called from the trick of Dido, who having bought so much land as a hide would cover, is said to have cut it into thin strips long enough to inclose a spot for a citadel. 
, the 2d pers. sing. imp. of Do. 
See Didymium. 
To disappear gradually in another surface, as where moldings are lost in a sloped or curved face. 
That part of a pedestal included between base and cornice; the dado. 
A small interval, less than any in actual practice, but used in the mathematical calculation of intervals. 
A legislative or administrative assembly in Germany, Poland, and some other countries of Europe; a deliberative convention; a council; as, the Diet of Worms, held in 1521. 
One who diets; one who prescribes, or who partakes of, food, according to hygienic rules. 
Dietetic. 
To cause to be different or unlike; to set at variance. [R.] But something 'ts that differs thee and me. Cowley. 
To take ore from its bed, in distinction from making excavations in search of ore. 
One who marries a second time; a deuterogamist. Hammond. 
Act, or state, of being twice married; deuterogamy. [R.] 
To separate (the food) in its passage through the alimentary canal into the nutritive and nonnutritive elements; to prepare, by the action of the digestive juices, for conversion into blood; to convert into chyme. 
To suppurate; to generate pus, as an ulcer. 
That which is digested; especially, that which is worked over, classified, and arranged under proper heads or titles; esp. (Law), 
One who, or that which, digs. Digger wasp (Zoöl.), any one of the fossorial Hymenoptera. 
One who dights. [Obs.] 
One of the terminal divisions of a limb appendage; a finger or toe. The ruminants have the "cloven foot," i. e., two hoofed digits on each foot. Owen. 
To point at or out with the finger. [R.] 
The act of dignifying; exaltation. 
A digraph. 
A bank; a dike. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple. 
A diiambus. 
A kind of food, made from the almondlike seeds of the Irvingia Barteri, much used by natives of the west coast of Africa; -- called also dika bread. 
A wall-like mass of mineral matter, usually an intrusion of igneous rocks, filling up rents or fissures in the original strata. 
To work as a ditcher; to dig. [Obs.] He would thresh and thereto dike and delve. Chaucer. 
To rend asunder; to tear to pieces. Sir T. Browne. 
Extensive; expanded. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A burden in popular songs. [Obs.] Delicate burthens of dildos and fadings. Shak. 
A columnar cactaceous plant of the West Indies (Cereus Swartzii). 
An herb (Peucedanum graveolens), the seeds of which are moderately warming, pungent, and aromatic, and were formerly used as a soothing medicine for children; -- called also dill-seed. Dr. Prior. 
To still; to calm; to soothe, as one in pain. [Obs.] 
A kind of stagecoach. "The Derby dilly." J. H. Frere. 
An ambiguous speech; a figure in which a word is used an equivocal sense. [R.] 
To become attenuated, thin, or weak; as, it dilutes easily. 
Diluted; thin; weak. A dilute and waterish exposition. Hopkins. 
To grow dim. J. C. Shairp. 
A bower; a dingle. [Obs.] Drayton. 
A silver coin of the United States, of the value of ten cents; the tenth of a dollar. Dime novel, a novel, commonly sensational and trashy, which is sold for a dime, or ten cents. 
One of the Dimera. 
See Dimmish. 
To dismiss, let go, or release. [Obs.] 
A cotton fabric employed for hangings and furniture coverings, and formerly used for women's under-garments. It is of many patterns, both plain and twilled, and occasionally is printed in colors. 
In a dim or obscure manner; not brightly or clearly; with imperfect sight. 
To form dimples; to sink into depressions or little inequalities. And smiling eddies dimpled on the main. Dryden. 
To mark with dimples or dimplelike depressions. Shak. 
Full of dimples, or small depressions; dimpled; as, the dimply pool. Thomson. 
Loud, confused, harsh noise; a loud, continuous, rattling or clanging sound; clamor; roar. Think you a little din can daunt mine ears Shak. He knew the battle's din afar. Sir W. Scott. The dust and din and steam of town. Tennyson. 
To sound with a din; a ding. The gay viol dinning in the dale. A. Seward. 
See Diarchy. 
To eat the principal regular meal of the day; to take dinner. Now can I break my fast, dine, sup, and sleep. Shak. To dine with Duke Humphrey, to go without dinner; -- a phrase common in Elizabethan literature, said to be from the practice of the poor gentry, who beguiled the dinner hour by a promenade near the tomb of Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, in Old Saint Paul's. 
One who dines. 
A thump or stroke, especially of a bell. 
A narrow dale; a small dell; a small, secluded, and embowered valley. 
A wild dog found in Australia, but supposed to have introduced at a very early period. It has a wolflike face, bushy tail, and a reddish brown color. 
Soiled; sullied; of a dark or dusky color; dark brown; dirty. "Scraps of dingy paper." Macaulay. 
from Dine, a. 
Trim; neat. [Scot.] Burns. -- Dink"ly, adv. 
To deck; -- often with out or up. [Scot.] 
Having no dinner. Fuller. 
To make a mark or cavity on or in, by a blow or by pressure; to dent. Donne. Tennyson. 
A genus of spinose, plectognath fishes, having the teeth of each jaw united into a single beaklike plate. They are able to inflate the body by taking in air or water, and, hence, are called globefishes, swellfishes, etc. fishes, and sea hedgehogs. 
A vase or drinking cup having two handles or ears. 
Including two passovers. Carpenter. 
Pertaining to the sending of two messages in the same direction at the same time. Diplex and contraplex are the two varieties of duplex. 
The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the plates of the skull. 
A group of ganoid fishes, including the living genera Ceratodus and Lepidosiren, which present the closest approximation to the Amphibia. The air bladder acts as a lung, and the nostrils open inside the mouth. See Ceratodus, and Illustration in Appendix. 
Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure. Hadley. Trochaic, iambic, and anapestic verses . . . are measured by dipodies. W. W. Goodwin. 
Doubly prismatic. 
A genus of harmless colubrine snakes. 
A mineral of the scapolite group; -- so called from the double effect of fire upon it, in fusing it, and rendering it phosphorescent. 
In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from west to east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of the motion of a celestial body. Direct action. (Mach.) See Direct-acting. -- Direct discourse (Gram.), the language of any one quoted without change in its form; as, he said "I can not come;" -- correlative to indirect discourse, in which there is change of form; as, he said that he could not come. They are often called respectively by their Latin names, oratio directa, and oratio obliqua. -- Direct evidence (Law), evidence which is positive or not inferential; -- opposed to circumstantial, or indirect, evidence. -- This distinction, however, is merely formal, since there is no direct evidence that is not circumstantial, or dependent on circumstances for its credibility. Wharton. -- Direct examination (Law), the first examination of a witness in the orderly course, upon the merits. Abbott. -- Direct fire (Mil.), fire, the direction of which is perpendicular to the line of troops or to the parapet aimed at. -- Direct process (Metal.), one which yields metal in working condition by a single process from the ore. Knight. -- Direct tax, a tax assessed directly on lands, etc., and polls, distinguished from taxes on merchandise, or customs, and from excise. 
To give direction; to point out a course; to act as guide. Wisdom is profitable to direct. Eccl. x. 10. 
A character, thus [ Moore (Encyc. of Music). 
In a dire manner. Drayton. 
A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeral rites; a funeral hymn. The raven croaked, and hollow shrieks of owls Sung dirges at her funeral. Ford. 
A service for the dead, in the Roman Catholic Church, being the first antiphon of Matins for the dead, of which Dirige is the first word; a dirge. Evensongs and placebo and dirige. Wyclif. Resort, I pray you, unto my sepulture To sing my dirige with great devotion. Lamentation of Mary Magdalene. 
A kind of dagger or poniard; -- formerly much used by the Scottish Highlander. Dirk knife, a clasp knife having a large, dirklike blade. 
To stab with a dirk. Sir W. Scott. 
Dark. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To darken. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To thrill; to vibrate; to penetrate. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To make foul of filthy; to dirty. Swift. 
Disruption. 
The god Pluto. Shak. 
See Dizzard. [Obs.] Burton. 
The act of disarming. 
To expel from the bar, or the legal profession; to deprive (an attorney, barrister, or counselor) of his status and privileges as such. Abbott. 
To deprive of buds or shoots, as for training, or economizing the vital strength of a tree. 
A flat round plate; (Biol.) 
Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells. 
To examine or search thoroughly; to exhaust a remedy against, as against a principal debtor before proceeding against the surety. Burrill. 
Eloquent. [Obs.] 
To disqualify. [R.] 
The circular figure of a celestial body, as seen projected of the heavens. 
In a dismal manner; gloomily; sorrowfully; uncomfortably. 
To unman. [Obs.] Feltham. 
To eject from the maw; to disgorge. [R.] Shelton. 
To take dismay or fright; to be filled with dismay. [Obs.] Shak. 
A state of being dismayed; dejection of courage; dispiritedness. 
A tenth; a tenth part; a tithe. Ayliffe. 
To throw out of the proper orbit; to unsphere. Shak. 
Disorder. [Obs.] Holland. 
Act of disowning. [R.] 
To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clear away; to banish; to dissipate; as, to dispel a cloud, vapors, cares, doubts, illusions. [Satan] gently raised their fainting courage, and dispelled their fears. Milton. I saw myself the lambent easy light Gild the brown horror, and dispel the night. Dryden. 
To discipline; to correct. [Obs.] And bitter Penance, with an iron whip, Was wont him once to disple every day. Spenser. 
of Disarray. [Obs.] Holland. 
Toward a distal part; on the distal side of; distally. 
Toward a distal part. 
To banish or drive from a country. [Obs.] Howell. 
See Distill. 
Cessation of use, practice, or exercise; inusitation; desuetude; as, the limbs lose their strength by disuse. The disuse of the tongue in the only . . . remedy. Addison. Church discipline then fell into disuse. Southey. 
To close up. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
To dig a ditch or ditches. Swift. 
To prepare for action or use; to make ready; to dight. [Obs.] His hideous club aloft he dites. Spenser. 
Dominion; rule. [Obs.] Evelyn. 
The Greek major third, which comprehend two major tones (the modern major third contains one major and one minor whole tone). 
See Dit, n., 
The aforesaid thing; the same (as before). Often contracted to do., or to two "turned commas" ("), or small marks. Used in bills, books of account, tables of names, etc., to save repetition. A spacious table in the center, and a variety of smaller dittos in the corners. Dickens. 
As before, or aforesaid; in the same manner; also. 
To sing; to warble a little tune. Beasts fain would sing; birds ditty to their notes. Herbert. 
A division of Lepidoptera, including the butterflies; -- so called because they fly only in the daytime. 
A prima donna. 
To divide into two branches; to cause to branch apart. 
Devastated; laid waste. [Obs.] 
A water fowl; the didapper. See Dabchick. 
To rend apart. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
Any bird of certain genera, as Urinator (formerly Colymbus), or the allied genus Colymbus, or Podiceps, remarkable for their agility in diving. 
A saying in which two members of the sentence are contrasted; an antithetical proverb. [Obs.] Italy, a paradise for horses, a hell for women, as the diverb goes. Burton. 
In different directions; diversely. 
To turn aside; to digress. [Obs.] I diverted to see one of the prince's palaces. Evelyn. 
The name popularly given to the rich man in our Lord's parable of the "Rich Man and Lazarus" (Luke xvi. 19-31). Hence, a name for a rich worldling. 
See Devest. Mozley & W. 
See Divot. 
To subject to arithmetical division. 
A dividing ridge of land between the tributaries of two streams; a watershed. 
Divination. [Obs.] 
That dives or is used or diving. Diving beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle of the family Dytiscidæ, which habitually lives under water; - - called also water tiger. -- Diving bell, a hollow inverted vessel, sometimes bell-shaped, in which men may descend and work under water, respiration being sustained by the compressed air at the top, by fresh air pumped in through a tube from above. -- Diving dress. See Submarine armor, under Submarine. -- Diving stone, a kind of jasper. 
A thin, oblong turf used for covering cottages, and also for fuel. [Scot.] Simmonds. 
A colloquial name for the Southern portion of the United States, esp. during the Civil War. [U.S.] 
To make dizzy; to astonish; to puzzle. [Obs.] Gayton. 
To make dizzy or giddy; to give the vertigo to; to confuse. If the jangling of thy bells had not dizzied thy understanding. Sir W. Scott. 
A tongue or tract of land included between two rivers; as, the doab between the Ganges and the Jumna. [India] Am. Cyc. 
Capable of being done. Carlyle. 
Doing. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
See Dote. 
See Dabchick. 
An apparatus resembling a Jacquard for weaving small figures (usually about 12 - 16 threads, seldom more than 36 - 40 threads). 
The aquatic larva of a large neuropterous insect (Corydalus cornutus), used as bait in angling. See Hellgamite. 
The European dace. 
Serving to instruct; teaching. [Obs.] 
The art or practice of applying tests to ascertain the nature, quality, etc., of objects, as of metals or ores, of medicines, or of facts pertaining to physiology. 
Teachableness. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U. S.] 
A genus of plants (Rumex), some species of which are well-known weeds which have a long taproot and are difficult of extermination. 
To draw, law, or place (a ship) in a dock, for repairing, cleaning the bottom, etc. 
A yard or storage place for all sorts of naval stores and timber for shipbuilding. 
The friar skate. [Prov. Eng.] Doctors' Commons. See under Commons. -- Doctor's stuff, physic, medicine. G. Eliot. -- Doctor fish (Zoöl.), any fish of the genus Acanthurus; the surgeon fish; -- so called from a sharp lancetlike spine on each side of the tail. Also called barber fish. See Surgeon fish. 
To practice physic. [Colloq.] 
Without horns; as, dodded cattle; without beards; as, dodded corn. Halliwell. 
A plant of the genus Cuscuta. It is a leafless parasitical vine with yellowish threadlike stems. It attaches itself to some other plant, as to flax, goldenrod, etc., and decaying at the root. is nourished by the plant that supports it. 
To shake, tremble, or totter. "The doddering mast." Thomson. 
The act of evading by some skillful movement; a sudden starting aside; hence, an artful device to evade, deceive, or cheat; a cunning trick; an artifice. [Colloq.] Some, who have a taste for good living, have many harmless arts, by which they improve their banquet, and innocent dodges, if we may be permitted to use an excellent phrase that has become vernacular since the appearance of the last dictionaries. Thackeray. 
trickery; artifice. [Obs.] Hacket. 
A doit; a small coin. Shelton. 
Any shellfish which casts its shell, as a lobster. [Prov. Eng.] 
A large, extinct bird (Didus ineptus), formerly inhabiting the Island of Mauritius. It had short, half-fledged wings, like those of the ostrich, and a short neck and legs; -- called also dronte. It was related to the pigeons. 
A female deer or antelope; specifically, the female of the fallow deer, of which the male is called a buck. Also applied to the female of other animals, as the rabbit. See the Note under Buck. 
A feat. [Obs.] See Do, n. Hudibras. 
An agent or attorney; a factor. Burrill. 
The 3d pers. sing. pres. of Do. 
To put off dress; to take off the hat. 
A revolving cylinder, or a vibrating bar with teeth, in a carding machine, which doffs, or strips off, the cotton from the cards. Ure. 
A quadruped of the genus Canis, esp. the domestic dog (C. familiaris). 
To hunt or track like a hound; to follow insidiously or indefatigably; to chase with a dog or dogs; to worry, as if by dogs; to hound with importunity. I have been pursued, dogged, and waylaid. Pope. Your sins will dog you, pursue you. Burroughs. Eager ill-bred petitioners, who do not so properly supplicate as hunt the person whom they address to, dogging him from place to place, till they even extort an answer to their rude requests. South. 
Of or pertaining to a doge.[R.] 
The office or dignity of a doge. 
The chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa. 
In a dogged manner; sullenly; with obstinate resolution. 
A two-masted fishing vessel, used by the Dutch. 
A sort of stone, found in the mines with the true alum rock, chiefly of silica and iron. 
Docket. See Docket. [Obs.] 
One of an ancient sect of physicians who went by general principles; -- opposed to the Empiric. 
A cramp. 
Anything done; a deed; an action good or bad; hence, in the plural, conduct; behavior. See Do. To render an account of his doings. Barrow. 
A very small coin; a doit. 
See Lepidosiren. 
grief; sorrow; lamentation. [Archaic] And she died. So that day there was dole in Astolat. Tennyson. 
See Dolus. 
To deal out in small portions; to distribute, as a dole; to deal out scantily or grudgingly. The supercilious condescension with which even his reputed friends doled out their praises to him. De Quincey. 
Sorrowful. [Obs.] Ford. 
of Delve. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A genus of large univalve mollusks, including the partridge shell and tun shells. 
A child's puppet; a toy baby for a little girl. 
A species of sunfish (Lepomis pallidus), common in the United States; -- called also blue sunfish, and copper-nosed bream. 
A contrivance, turning on a vertical axis by a handle or winch, and giving a circular motion to the ore to be washed; a stirrer. 
A child's mane for a doll. Dolly shop, a shop where rags, old junk, etc., are bought and sold; usually, in fact, an unlicensed pawnbroker's shop, formerly distinguished by the sign of a black doll. [England] 
A cromlech. See Cromlech. [Written also tolmen.] 
Pain; grief; distress; anguish. [Written also dolour.] [Poetic] Of death and dolor telling sad tidings. Spenser. 
A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus; a dunce; a dullard. This Puck seems but a dreaming dolt. Drayton. 
To behave foolishly. [Obs.] 
Evil intent, embracing both malice and fraud. See Culpa. Wharton. 
of Delve. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
Capable of being tamed; tamable. 
Ownership of land; an estate or patrimony which one has in his own right; absolute proprietorship; paramount or sovereign ownership. Public domain, the territory belonging to a State or to the general government; public lands. [U.S.]in the public domain may be used by anyone wihout restriction. -- Right of eminent domain, that superior dominion of the sovereign power over all the property within the state, including that previously granted by itself, which authorizes it to appropriate any part thereof to a necessary public use, reasonable compensation being made. 
Pertaining to a house. Addison. 
A cupola formed on a large scale. 
Decision; judgment; opinion; a court decision. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Furnished with a dome; shaped like a dome. 
A kind of baize of which the ward is cotton and the weft woolen. Blakely. 
To divide, as the heavens, into twelve houses. See House, in astrological sense. [Obs.] 
Lady; a lady; -- a title formerly given to noble ladies who held a barony in their own right. Burrill. 
A West Indian fish (Epinula magistralis), of the family Trichiuridæ. It is a long-bodied, voracious fish. 
A game played by two or more persons, with twenty-eight pieces of wood, bone, or ivory, of a flat, oblong shape, plain at the back, but on the face divided by a line in the middle, and either left blank or variously dotted after the manner of dice. The game is played by matching the spots or the blank of an unmatched half of a domino already played Hoyle. 
A grayish variety of trachyte; -- so called from the Puy-de- Dôme in Auvergne, France, where it is found. 
To put on; to dress in; to invest one's self with. Should I don this robe and trouble you. Shak. At night, or in the rain, He dons a surcoat which he doffs at morn. Emerson. 
A thing given to a sacred use. [R.] Burton. 
A grammar. [Obs.] [Written also donet.] 
To give; to bestow; to present; as, to donate fifty thousand dollars to a college. 
A canelike grass of southern Europe (Arundo Donax), used for fishing rods, etc. 
p. p. from Do, and formerly the infinitive. 
Given; executed; issued; made public; -- used chiefly in the clause giving the date of a proclamation or public act. 
Anciently, one to whom lands were given; in later use, one to whom lands and tenements are given in tail; in modern use, one on whom a power is conferred for execution; -- sometimes called the appointor. 
Same as Donat. Piers Plowman. 
A clumsy craft, having one mast with a long sail, used for trading purposes on the coasts of Coromandel and Ceylon. [Written also dhony, doney, and done.] 
The chief tower, also called the keep; a massive tower in ancient castles, forming the strongest part of the fortifications. See Illust. of Castle. 
A lady; madam; mistress; -- the title given a lady in Italy. 
See Do-naught. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Lit., given; hence, in a literary work, as a drama or tale, that which is assumed as to characters, situation, etc., as a basis for the plot or story.  W. E. Henley. 
One who grants an estate; in later use, one who confers a power; -- the opposite of donee. Kent. Touching, the parties unto deeds and charters, we are to consider as well the donors and granters as the donees or grantees. Spelman. 
A young squire, or knight's attendant; a page. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
A dove. [Scot.] 
A trifler; a simple fellow. 
Sorrow; dole. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A kind of litter suspended from men's shoulders, for carrying persons or things; a palanquin. [Written also doolee and doolie.] [East Indies] Having provided doolies, or little bamboo chairs slung on four men's shoulders, in which I put my papers and boxes, we next morning commenced the ascent. J. D. Hooker. 
A penalty or fine for neglect. [Local, New England] 
The surrounding frame into which a door shuts. 
A Hindoo divinity, the consort of Siva, represented with ten arms. [Written also Durga.] Malcom. 
To dip. [Obs.] Walton. 
A dip; a low courtesy. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A chart of previous performances, etc., of race horses. [Race- track Slang] 
Affected by "dope"; esp., sluggish or dull as though under the influence of a narcotic. [Slang] 
An Anabaptist or Baptist. [Contemptuous] B. Jonson. 
A warrant. See Docket. 
A large European scaraboid beetle (Geotrupes stercorarius), which makes a droning noise while flying. The name is also applied to allied American species, as the June bug. Called also dorr, dorbeetle, or dorrbeetle, dorbug, dorrfly, and buzzard clock. 
A trick, joke, or deception. Beau. & Fl. To give one the dor, to make a fool of him. [Archaic] P. Fletcher. 
To make a fool of; to deceive. [Obs.] [Written also dorr.] B. Jonson. 
A southern constellation, within which is the south pole of the ecliptic; -- called also sometimes Xiphias, or the Swordfish. 
A European marine fish (Zeus faber), of a yellow color. See Illust. of John Doree. 
Same as Doric, 3. "Dorian mood." Milton. Dorian mode (Mus.), the first of the authentic church modes or tones, from D to D, resembling our D minor scale, but with the B natural. Grove. 
A native or inhabitant of Doris in Greece. 
Belonging to, or resembling, the oldest and simplest of the three orders of architecture used by the Greeks, but ranked as second of the five orders adopted by the Romans. See Abacus, Capital, Order. 
The Doric dialect. 
A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks having a wreath of branchiæ on the back. 
A Doric phrase or idiom. 
Up, or ahead, as many holes as remain to be played; -- said of a player or side. 
A British ray; the thornback. 
A hamlet. "A mean fishing dorp." Howell. 
The dorbeetle; also, a drone or an idler. See 1st Dor. Robynson (More's Utopia). 
See 1st Dor. 
Toward the dorsum or back; on the dorsal side; dorsally. 
Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of an animal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; as, the dorsal fin of a fish; the dorsal artery of the tongue; -- opposed to ventral. 
A hanging, usually of rich stuff, at the back of a throne, or of an altar, or in any similar position. 
The Baltic or variable cod (Gadus callarias), by some believed to be the young of the common codfish. 
See Dosser. 
The back or dorsal region of an animal; the upper side of an appendage or part; as, the dorsum of the tongue. 
A European fish. See Doree, and John Doree. 
A small, strong, flat-bottomed rowboat, with sharp prow and flaring sides. 
The administration of medicine in doses; specif., a scheme or system of grading doses of medicine according to age, etc. 
Same as Dorsal, n. [R.] 
A place to sleep in; a bed; hence, sleep. [Slang] 
Same as Dorsal, n. 
A cheap lodging house. 
A small ovoid or cylindrical roil or pledget of lint, for keeping a sore, wound, etc., open; a tent. 
of Do. 
A marriage portion; dowry. [Louisiana] 
To make dots or specks. 
Pertaining to dower, or a woman's marriage portion; constituting dower, or comprised in it. Garth. 
A dotard. [Obs.] Shak. 
One whose mind is impaired by age; one in second childhood. The sickly dotard wants a wife. Prior. 
A dotard's weakness; dotage. [Obs.] Drayton. 
Natural endowments. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
An imbecile; a dotard. Halliwell. 
A dotard. [R.] Tyndale. 
The acts or speech of a dotard; drivel. [R.] 
of Do. 
That dotes; silly; excessively fond. -- Dot"ing*ly, adv. -- Dot"ing*ness, n. 
Foolish; weak; imbecile. Sir W. Scott. 
Marked with, or made of, dots or small spots; diversified with small, detached objects. Dotted note (Mus.), a note followed by a dot to indicate an increase of length equal to one half of its simple value; thus, a dotted semibreve is equal to three minims, and a dotted quarter to three eighth notes. -- Dotted rest, a rest lengthened by a dot in the same manner as a dotted note. 
Half-rotten; as, doty timber. [Local, U. S.] 
A customhouse. 
A village composed of Arab tents arranged in streets. 
Having the petals in a flower considerably increased beyond the natural number, usually as the result of cultivation and the expense of the stamens, or stamens and pistils. The white water lily and some other plants have their blossoms naturally double. 
Twice; doubly. I was double their age. Swift. 
To unite, as ranks or files, so as to form one from each two. 
To set up a word or words a second time by mistake; to make a doublet. To double upon (Mil.), to inclose between two fires. 
A feast in which the antiphon is doubled, hat is, said twice, before and after the Psalms, instead of only half being said, as in simple feasts. Shipley. 
State of being in doubt; uncertainty; doubt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A monkey (Semnopithecus nemæus), remarkable for its varied and brilliant colors. It is a native of Cochin China. 
One of the twelve peers of France, companions of Charlemagne in war. [Written also douzepere.] [Obs.] Big-looking like a doughty doucepere. Spenser. 
A syringe. 
Imperfectly baked; hence, not brought to perfection; unfinished; also, of weak or dull understanding. [Colloq.] Halliwell. 
Like dough; soft and heavy; pasty; crude; flabby and pale; as, a doughy complexion. 
The carrion crow. [Written also dob.] [Prov. Eng.] 
Hard; inflexible; obstinate; sour in aspect; hardy; bold. [Scot.] A dour wife, a sour old carlin. C. Reade. 
A kind of millet. See Durra. 
To strike or lower in haste; to slacken suddenly; as, douse the topsail. 
To fall suddenly into water. Hudibras. 
To put out; to extinguish. [Slang] " To douse the glim." Sir W. Scott. 
To put out. [Obs.] "It douts the light." Sylvester. 
An extinguisher for candles. [Obs.] 
A pigeon of the genus Columba and various related genera. The species are numerous. 
Like a dove; harmless; innocent. "Joined with dovish simplicity." Latimer. 
A kind of vessel. See Dhow. 
To furnish with a dower; to endow. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
One of the testicles of a hart or stag. [Spelt also doucet.] B. Jonson. 
Showing a vulgar taste in dress; awkward and slovenly in dress; vulgar-looking. -- Dow"di*ly, adv. -- Dow"di*ness, n. 
An awkward, vulgarly dressed, inelegant woman. Shak. Dryden. 
To fasten together by dowels; to furnish with dowels; as, a cooper dowels pieces for the head of a cask. 
That portion of the real estate of a man which his widow enjoys during her life, or to which a woman is entitled after the death of her husband. Blackstone. 
See Dower. 
Same as Dowle. 
A coarse linen cloth made in the north of England and in Scotland, now nearly replaced by calico. Shak. 
Feathery or wool-like down; filament of a feather. Shak. No feather, or dowle of a feather. De Quincey. 
To cover, ornament, line, or stuff with down. [R.] Young. 
A road for shipping in the English Channel or Straits of Dover, near Deal, employed as a naval rendezvous in time of war. On the 11th [June, 1771] we run up the channel . . . at noon we were abreast of Dover, and about three came to an anchor in the Downs, and went ashore at Deal. Cook (First Voyage). 
To cause to go down; to make descend; to put down; to overthrow, as in wrestling; hence, to subdue; to bring down. [Archaic or Colloq.] "To down proud hearts." Sir P. Sidney. I remember how you downed Beauclerk and Hamilton, the wits, once at our house. Madame D'Arblay. 
To go down; to descend. Locke. 
To bear down; to depress. 
Of or relating to a dower. [R.] 
To beat or thrash. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To use the dipping or divining rod, as in search of water, ore, etc. Adams had the reputation of having dowsed successfully for more than a hundred wells. Eng. Cyc. 
A blow on the face. [Low] Colman. 
A dowse. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
A dove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A loose wench; a disreputable sweetheart. Shak. 
Lit., a dean; the senior member of a body or group; as, the doyen of French physicians. "This doyen of newspapers."  A. R. Colquhoun. 
See Doily. 
To slumber; to sleep lightly; to be in a dull or stupefied condition, as if half asleep; to be drowsy. If he happened to doze a little, the jolly cobbler waked him. L'Estrange. 
A light sleep; a drowse. Tennyson. 
Twelfth. [R.] 
One who dozes or drowses. 
Drowsy; inclined to doze; sleepy; sluggish; as, a dozy head. Dryden. 
To associate with strumpets; to wench. Beau. & Fl. 
Of a color between gray and brown. -- n. 
See Drachma. 
See Draconin. 
The Dragon, a northern constellation within which is the north pole of the ecliptic. 
Dreaded. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
of Dread. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Inferior ore, separated from the better by cobbing. Raymond. 
Refuse; lees; dregs; the wash given to swine or cows; hogwash; waste matter. Prodigals lately come from swine keeping, from eating draff and husks. Shak. The draff and offal of a bygone age. Buckle. Mere chaff and draff, much better burnt. Tennyson. 
A selecting or detaching of soldiers from an army, or from any part of it, or from a military post; also from any district, or any company or collection of persons, or from the people at large; also, the body of men thus drafted. Several of the States had supplied the deficiency by drafts to serve for the year. Marshall. 
Dreggy; waste; worthless. The dregs and draffy part. Beau. & Fl. 
See Draughtsman. 
A confection; a comfit; a drug. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The bottom part of a flask or mold, the upper part being the cope. 
A fabulous animal, generally represented as a monstrous winged serpent or lizard, with a crested head and enormous claws, and regarded as very powerful and ferocious. The dragons which appear in early paintings and sculptures are invariably representations of a winged crocodile. Fairholt. 
To trail; to draggle. [Obs.] South. 
The grain from the mashing tub; as, brewers' drains. [Eng.] Halliwell. Box drain, Counter drain. See under Box, Counter. -- Right of drain (Law), an easement or servitude by which one man has a right to convey water in pipes through or over the estate of another. Kent. 
The missel thrush. 
The drake fly. The drake will mount steeple height into the air. Walton. Drake fly, a kind of fly, sometimes used in angling. The dark drake fly, good in August. Walton. 
Wild oats, brome grass, or darnel grass; -- called also drawk, dravick, and drank. [Prov. Eng.] Dr. Prior. 
A Persian daric. Ezra ii. 69. Fluid dram, or Fluid drachm. See under Fluid. 
To drink drams; to ply with drams. [Low] Johnson. Thackeray. 
Of or pertaining to the drama; appropriate to, or having the qualities of, a drama; theatrical; vivid. The emperor . . . performed his part with much dramatic effect. Motley. 
of Drink. 
Wild oats, or darnel grass. See Drake a plant. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
One who sells cloths; a dealer in cloths; as, a draper and tailor. 
Cloth. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Filthy; worthless. [Obs.] "Drasty ryming." Chaucer. 
See Draft. [Obs.] 
, old imp. of Drive. [Obs.] 
To have efficiency as an epispastic; to act as a sinapism; -- said of a blister, poultice, etc. 
Capable of being drawn. 
The person on whom an order or bill of exchange is drawn; -- the correlative of drawer. 
An under-garment worn on the lower limbs. Chest of drawers. See under Chest. 
To utter in a slow, lengthened tone. 
To speak with slow and lingering utterance, from laziness, lack of spirit, affectation, etc. Theologians and moralists . . . talk mostly in a drawling and dreaming way about it. Landor. 
A lengthened, slow monotonous utterance. 
See Draw, v. t. & i. Drawn butter, butter melter and prepared to be used as a sort of gravy. -- Drawn fowl, an eviscerated fowl. -- Drawn game or battle, one in which neither party wins; one equally contested. -- Drawn fox, one driven from cover. Shak. -- Drawn work, ornamental work made by drawing out threads from fine cloth, and uniting the cross threads, to form a pattern. 
A squirrel's nest. Cowper. 
A man who attends a dray. 
A slut; a vagabond wench. Same as Drossel. [Obs.] Hudibras. 
To fear in a great degree; to regard, or look forward to, with terrific apprehension. When at length the moment dreaded through so many years came close, the dark cloud passed away from Johnson's mind. Macaulay. 
To be in dread, or great fear. Dread not, neither be afraid of them. Deut. i. 29. 
Worthy of being dreaded. 
To have a dream of; to see, or have a vision of, in sleep, or in idle fancy; -- often followed by an objective clause. Your old men shall dream dreams. Acts ii. 17. At length in sleep their bodies they compose, And dreamt the future fight. Dryden. And still they dream that they shall still succeed. Cowper. To dream away, out, through, etc., to pass in revery or inaction; to spend in idle vagaries; as, to dream away an hour; to dream through life. " Why does Antony dream out his hours" Dryden. 
Abounding in dreams or given to dreaming; appropriate to, or like, dreams; visionary. "The dreamy dells." Tennyson. 
Dismal; gloomy with solitude. "A drear and dying sound." Milton. 
Sadness; dismalness. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To delay. [Obs.] Gower. 
Very fine mineral matter held in suspension in water. Raymond. 
To catch or gather with a dredge; to deepen with a dredging machine. R. Carew. Dredging machine, a machine (commonly on a boat) used to scoop up mud, gravel, or obstructions from the bottom of rivers, docks, etc., so as to deepen them. 
A mixture of oats and barley. [Obs.] Kersey. 
To sift or sprinkle flour, etc., on, as on roasting meat. Beau. & Fl. Dredging box. (a) Same as 2d Dredger. (b) (Gun.) A copper box with a perforated lid; -- used for sprinkling meal powder over shell fuses. Farrow. 
To endure; to suffer. [Scot.] 
To be able to do or endure. [Obs.] 
Wearisome; tedious. [Prov. Eng.] 
Corrupt or defiling matter contained in a liquid, or precipitated from it; refuse; feculence; lees; grounds; sediment; hence, the vilest and most worthless part of anything; as, the dregs of society. We, the dregs and rubbish of mankind. Dryden. 
Containing dregs or lees; muddy; foul; feculent. Boyle. 
To drain. [Obs.] Congreve. 
A drink; a draught; specifically, a potion of medicine poured or forced down the throat; also, a potion that causes purging. "A drench of wine." Dryden. Give my roan horse a drench. Shak. 
A military vassal mentioned in Domesday Book. [Obs.] Burrill. 
Drenched; drowned. [Obs.] "Condemned to be drent." Spenser. 
To arrange in exact continuity of line, as soldiers; commonly to adjust to a straight line and at proper distance; to align; as, to dress the ranks. 
To arrange one's self in due position in a line of soldiers; -- the word of command to form alignment in ranks; as, Right, dress! 
The system of furrows on the face of a millstone. Knight. Dress circle. See under Circle. -- Dress parade (Mil.), a parade in full uniform for review. 
Showy in dress; attentive to dress. A dressy flaunting maidservant. T. Hook. A neat, dressy gentleman in black. W. Irving. 
of Dress. 
See Drecche. [Obs.] 
To drool. [Obs.] 
A fool; a drudge. See Drivel. 
of Draw. 
A squirrel's nest. See Dray. [Obs.] 
Dry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To do by little and little; as: (a) To cut off by a little at a time; to crop. (b) To appropriate unlawfully; to filch; to defalcate. He who drives their bargain dribs a part. Dryden. 
To shoot (a shaft) so as to pierce on the descent. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 
A drop. [Obs.] Swift. 
To endure. [Obs.] So causeless such drede for to drie. Chaucer. 
of Day. Also adj.; as, dried apples. 
Drying oil; a substance mingled with the oil used in oil painting to make it dry quickly. 
The horizontal thrust or pressure of an arch or vault upon the abutments. [R.] Knight. 
to make a drift; to examine a vein or ledge for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of metals or ores; to follow a vein; to prospect. [U.S.] 
To enlarge or shape, as a hole, with a drift. 
That causes drifting or that is drifted; movable by wind or currents; as, drift currents; drift ice; drift mud. Kane. Drift anchor. See Sea anchor, and also Drag sail, under Drag, n. -- Drift epoch (Geol.), the glacial epoch. -- Drift net, a kind of fishing net. -- Drift sail. Same as Drag sail. See under Drag, n. 
Full of drifts; tending to form drifts, as snow, and the like. 
To practice an exercise or exercises; to train one's self. 
The act or exercise of training soldiers in the military art, as in the manual of arms, in the execution of evolutions, and the like; hence, diligent and strict instruction and exercise in the rudiments and methods of any business; a kind or method of military exercises; as, infantry drill; battalion drill; artillery drill. 
A large African baboon (Cynocephalus leucophæus). 
Same as Drilling. Imperial drill, a linen fabric having two threads in the warp and three in the filling. 
See Dryly. Thackeray. 
A genus of magnoliaceous trees. Drimys aromatica furnishes Winter's bark. 
Capable of being drunk; suitable for drink; potable. Macaulay. Also used substantively, esp. in the plural. Steele. 
To let fall in drops. Which from the thatch drips fast a shower of rain. Swift. 
That part of a cornice, sill course, or other horizontal member, which projects beyond the rest, and is of such section as to throw off the rain water. Right of drip (Law), an easement or servitude by which a man has the right to have the water flowing from his house fall on the land of his neighbor. 
To dig Horizontally; to cut a horizontal gallery or tunnel. Tomlinson. 
Driven. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A drift; a tool for setting bolts home. 
To be weak or foolish; to dote; as, a driveling hero; driveling love. Shak. Dryden. 
A slaverer; a slabberer; an idiot; a fool. [Written also driveller.] 
of Drive. Also adj. Driven well, a well made by driving a tube into the earth to an aqueous stratum; -- called also drive well. 
A part that transmits motion to another part by contact with it, or through an intermediate relatively movable part, as a gear which drives another, or a lever which moves another through a link, etc. Specifically: (a) The driving wheel of a locomotive. (b) An attachment to a lathe, spindle, or face plate to turn a carrier. (c) A crossbar on a grinding mill spindle to drive the upper stone. 
A water course. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Drag, n., 
of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To work sluggishly or slowly; to plod. [Obs.] 
A right; law in its aspect of the foundation of rights; also, in old law, the writ of right. Abbott. Droit d'aubaine. See under Aubaine. -- Droits of the Admiralty (Eng. Law), rights or perquisites of the Admiralty, arising from seizure of an enemy's ships in port on the breaking out of war, or those coming into port in ignorance of hostilities existing, or from such ships as are taken by noncommissioned captors; also, the proceeds of wrecks, and derelict property at sea. The droits of admiralty are now paid into the Exchequer for the public benefit. 
Queer, and fitted to provoke laughter; ludicrous from oddity; amusing and strange. 
To jest; to play the buffoon. [R.] 
A jester; a droll. [Obs.] Glanvill. 
The crab plover (Dromas ardeola), a peculiar North African bird, allied to the oyster catcher. 
The male of bees, esp. of the honeybee. It gathers no honey. See Honeybee. All with united force combine to drive The lazy drones from the laborious hive. Dryden. 
The male of the honeybee; a drone. 
A passerine bird of the family Dicruridæ. They are usually black with a deeply forked tail. They are natives of Asia, Africa, and Australia; -- called also drongo shrikes. 
The dodo. 
Like a drone; sluggish; lazy. 
To drivel, or drop saliva; as, the child drools. His mouth drooling with texts. T. Parker. 
To let droop or sink. [R.] M. Arnold. Like to a withered vine That droops his sapless branches to the ground. Shak. 
A drooping; as, a droop of the eye. 
Any medicine the dose of which is measured by drops; as, lavender drops. 
A little drop; a tear. Shak. 
An unnatural collection of serous fluid in any serous cavity of the body, or in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Dunglison. 
imp. & p. p. of Drop, v. G. Eliot. 
A low, four-wheeled, open carriage, used in Russia, consisting of a kind of long, narrow bench, on which the passengers ride as on a saddle, with their feet reaching nearly to the ground. Other kinds of vehicles are now so called, esp. a kind of victoria drawn by one or two horses, and used as a public carriage in German cities. [Written also droitzschka, and droschke.] 
A slut; a hussy; a drazel. [Obs.] Warner. 
Of, pertaining to, resembling, dross; full of dross; impure; worthless. " Drossy gold." Dryden. "Drossy rhymes." Donne. -- Dross"i*ness, n. 
of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Troubled; muddy. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Same as Drought. Sandys. Another ill accident is drouth at the spindling of corn. Bacon. One whose drouth [thirst], Yet scarce allayed, still eyes the current stream. Milton. In the dust and drouth of London life. Tennyson. 
of Drive. 
A narrow drain or channel used in the irrigation of land. Simmonds. 
of Drive. [Obs.] 
Turbid; muddy; filthy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To be suffocated in water or other fluid; to perish in water. Methought, what pain it was to drown. Shak. 
The act of drowning. [R.] 
To sleep imperfectly or unsoundly; to slumber; to be heavy with sleepiness; to doze. "He drowsed upon his couch." South. In the pool drowsed the cattle up to their knees. Lowell. 
To make heavy with sleepiness or imperfect sleep; to make dull or stupid. Milton. 
A slight or imperfect sleep; a doze. But smiled on in a drowse of ecstasy. Mrs. Browning. 
See Drought. Bacon. 
See Droil. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To beat with a stick; to thrash; to cudgel. Soundly Drubbed with a good honest cudgel. L'Estrange. 
A blow with a cudgel; a thump. Addison. 
To perform menial work; to labor in mean or unpleasant offices with toil and fatigue. He gradually rose in the estimation of the booksellers for whom he drudged. Macaulay. 
To consume laboriously; -- with away. Rise to our toils and drudge away the day. Otway. 
One who drudges; one who works hard in servile employment; a mental servant. Milton. 
Courtship; gallantry; love; an object of love. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To drudge; to toil laboriously. [Obs.] "To drugge and draw." Chaucer. 
A drudge. Shak. (Timon iv. 3, 253). 
To prescribe or administer drugs or medicines. B. Jonson. 
A druggist. [Obs.] Burton. 
A female Druid; a prophetess. 
An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollow cylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin or vellum, to be beaten with a stick; or of a metallic hemisphere (kettledrum) with a single piece of skin to be so beaten; the common instrument for marking time in martial music; one of the pair of tympani in an orchestra, or cavalry band. The drums cry bud-a-dub. Gascoigne. 
The sound of a beaten drum; drum music. Whose morning drumbeat, following the sun, and keeping company with the hours, circles the earth with one continuous and unbroken strain of the martial airs of England. D. Webster. 
Turbid; muddy. [Scot. & Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Wodroephe (1623). Burns. 
A drunken condition; a spree. [Slang] 
Drupaceous. 
A fruit consisting of pulpy, coriaceous, or fibrous exocarp, without valves, containing a nut or stone with a kernel. The exocarp is succulent in the plum, cherry, apricot, peach, etc.; dry and subcoriaceous in the almond; and fibrous in the cocoanut. 
A cavity in a rock, having its interior surface studded with crystals and sometimes filled with water; a geode. 
One of a people and religious sect dwelling chiefly in the Lebanon mountains of Syria. The Druses separated from the Mohammedan Arabs in the 9th century. Their characteristic dogma is the unity of God. Am. Cyc. 
Of certain morbid conditions, in which there is entire or comparative absence of moisture; as, dry gangrene; dry catarrh. 
To make dry; to free from water, or from moisture of any kind, and by any means; to exsiccate; as, to dry the eyes; to dry one's tears; the wind dries the earth; to dry a wet cloth; to dry hay. To dry up. (a) To scorch or parch with thirst; to deprive utterly of water; to consume. Their honorable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst. Is. v. 13. The water of the sea, which formerly covered it, was in time exhaled and dried up by the sun. Woodward. (b) To make to cease, as a stream of talk. Their sources of revenue were dried up. Jowett (Thucyd. ) -- To dry, or dry up, a cow, to cause a cow to cease secreting milk. Tylor. 
A wood nymph; a nymph whose life was bound up with that of her tree. 
A dryad. 
See Drier. Sir W. Temple. 
In a dry manner; not succulently; without interest; without sympathy; coldly. 
A union of two; duality. [R.] Harris. 
Expressing, or consisting of, the number two; belonging to two; as, the dual number of nouns, etc. , in Greek. Here you have one half of our dual truth. Tyndall. 
An explosive substance consisting essentially of sawdust or wood pulp, saturated with nitroglycerin and other similar nitro compounds. It is inferior to dynamite, and is more liable to explosion. 
A division of a poem corresponding to a canto; a poem or song. [R.] 
To make a noise by brisk drumbeats. "Now the drum dubs." Beau. & Fl. 
A blow. [R.] Hudibras. 
A pool or puddle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
The Syrian bear. See under Bear. [Written also dhubb, and dub.] 
One who, or that which, dubs. 
A globular vessel or bottle of leather, used in India to hold ghee, oil, etc. [Also written dupper.] M'Culloch. 
Of or pertaining to a duke. His ducal cap was to be exchanged for a kingly crown. Motley. 
A coin, either of gold or silver, of several countries in Europe; originally, one struck in the dominions of a duke. 
The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom. 
A pet; a darling. Shak. 
The light clothes worn by sailors in hot climates. [Colloq.] 
Any bird of the subfamily Anatinæ, family Anatidæ. 
, from Duck, v. t. & i. Ducking stool, a stool or chair in which common scolds were formerly tied, and plunged into water, as a punishment. See Cucking stool. The practice of ducking began in the latter part of the 15th century, and prevailed until the early part of the 18th, and occasionally as late as the 19th century. Blackstone. Chambers. 
One of the vessels of an animal body by which the products of glandular secretion are conveyed to their destination. 
A contrivance for removing superfluous ink or coloring matter from a roller. See Doctor, 4. Knight. Ductor roller (Printing), the roller which conveys or supplies ink to another roller. Knight. 
To confuse or confound with noise. Jennings. 
To shiver or tremble; to dodder. I dudder and shake like an aspen leaf. Ford. 
A peddler or hawker, especially of cheap and flashy goods pretended to be smuggled; a duffer. [Eng.] 
A kind of dandy; especially, one characterized by an ultrafashionable style of dress and other affectations. [Recent] The social dude who affects English dress and English drawl. The American. 
A short tobacco pipe. [Written also dudheen.] [Irish] 
Like, or characterized of, a dude. 
Directly; exactly; as, a due east course. 
To endue. [Obs.] Shak. 
Fit; becoming. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A combat between two persons, fought with deadly weapons, by agreement. It usually arises from an injury done or an affront given by one to the other. Trial by duel (Old Law), a combat between two persons for proving a cause; trial by battel. 
To fight in single combat. [Obs.] 
One who engages in a duel. [R.] [Written also dueller.] South. 
A duel; also, the rules of dueling. [Obs.] Shak. 
A composition for two performers, whether vocal or instrumental. 
See Duet. 
A kind of coarse woolen cloth, having a thick nap or frieze. [Written also duffle.] Good duffel gray and flannel fine. Wordsworth. 
See Duffel. 
A teat, pap, or nipple; -- formerly that of a human mother, now that of a cow or other beast. With mother's dug between its lips. Shak. 
of Dig. 
An aquatic herbivorous mammal (Halicore dugong), of the order Sirenia, allied to the manatee, but with a bilobed tail. It inhabits the Red Sea, Indian Ocean, East Indies, and Australia. [Written also duyong.] 
A way or road dug through a hill, or sunk below the surface of the land. [U.S.] 
To play the duke. [Poetic] Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence. Shak. 
To make sweet; to soothe. [Obs.] 
A sweet-toned stop of an organ. 
An inferior kind of veneration or worship, given to the angels and saints as the servants of God. 
To become dull or stupid. Rom. of R. 
One who, or that which, dulls. 
In a dull manner; stupidly; slowly; sluggishly; without life or spirit. Supinely calm and dully innocent. G. Lyttelton. 
A seaweed of a reddish brown color, which is sometimes eaten, as in Scotland. The true dulse is Sarcophyllis edulis; the common is Rhodymenia. [Written also dillisk.] The crimson leaf of the dulse is seen To blush like a banner bathed in slaughter. Percival. 
In a due, fit, or becoming manner; as it (anything) ought to be; properly; regularly. 
Pertaining to, or set with, briers or bushes; brambly. [R.] 
To put to silence. [Obs.] Shak. 
In silence; mutely. 
One who plays a merely nominal part in any action; a sham character. 
A thick, ill-shapen piece; a clumsy leaden counter used by boys in playing chuck farthing. [Eng.] Smart. 
A pile of ore or rock. 
To make dumpy; to fold, or bend, as one part over another. [R.] He was a little man, dumpled up together. Sir W. Scott. 
A level having a short telescope (hence its name) rigidly fixed to a table capable only of rotatory movement in a horizontal plane. The telescope is usually an inverting one. It is sometimes called the Troughton level, from the name of the inventor, and a variety improved by one Gavatt is known as the Gavatt level. 
A mound or small hill. 
To cure, as codfish, in a particular manner, by laying them, after salting, in a pile in a dark place, covered with salt grass or some like substance. 
To ask or beset, as a debtor, for payment; to urge importunately. Hath she sent so soon to dun Swift. 
Of a dark color; of a color partaking of a brown and black; of a dull brown color; swarthy. Summer's dun cloud comes thundering up. Pierpont. Chill and dun Falls on the moor the brief November day. Keble. Dun crow (Zoöl.), the hooded crow; -- so called from its color; -- also called hoody, and hoddy. -- Dun diver (Zoöl.), the goosander or merganser. 
One backward in book learning; a child or other person dull or weak in intellect; a dullard; a dolt. I never knew this town without dunces of figure. Swift. 
The lees or dregs of cane juice, used in the distillation of rum. [West Indies] The use of dunder in the making of rum answers the purpose of yeast in the fermentation of flour. B. Edwards. 
A low hill of drifting sand usually formed on the coats, but often carried far inland by the prevailing winds. [Written also dun.] Three great rivers, the Rhine, the Meuse, and the Scheldt, had deposited their slime for ages among the dunes or sand banks heaved up by the ocean around their mouths. Motley. 
The excrement of an animal. Bacon. 
To immerse or steep, as calico, in a bath of hot water containing cow dung; -- done to remove the superfluous mordant. 
To void excrement. Swift. 
Full of dung; filthy; vile; low. Shak. 
One of a religious denomination whose tenets and practices are mainly those of the Baptists, but partly those of the Quakers; -- called also Tunkers, Dunkards, Dippers, and, by themselves, Brethren, and German Baptists. 
A species of sandpiper (Tringa alpina); -- called also churr, dorbie, grass bird, and red-backed sandpiper. It is found both in Europe and America. 
One employed in soliciting the payment of debts. 
Deaf; stupid.[Prov. Eng.] My old dame Joan is something dunny, and will scarce know how to manage. Sir W. Scott. 
A blow. [Obs.] R. of Glouc. 
Beaten; hence, blunted. [Obs.] Fencer's swords . . . having the edge dunted. Fuller. 
A porpoise. [Scott.] Dunter goose (Zoöl.) the eider duck. J. Brand. 
A composition for two performers; a duet. 
A cathedral. See Dome, 2. Of tower or duomo, sunny sweet. Tennyson. 
To open; as, to dup the door. [Obs.] Shak. 
One who has been deceived or who is easily deceived; a gull; as, the dupe of a schemer. 
To deceive; to trick; to mislead by imposing on one's credulity; to gull; as, dupe one by flattery. Ne'er have I duped him with base counterfeits. Coleridge. 
One who dupes another. 
The act or practice of duping. [R.] 
A double cocoon, made by two silkworms. 
Double. Duple ratio (Math.), that in which the antecedent term is double the consequent, as of 2 to 1, 8 to 4, etc. 
Double; twofold. Duplex escapement, a peculiar kind of watch escapement, in which the scape-wheel has two sets of teeth. See Escapement. -- Duplex lathe, one for turning off, screwing, and surfacing, by means of two cutting tools, on opposite sides of the piece operated upon. -- Duplex pumping engine, a steam pump in which two steam cylinders are placed side by side, one operating the valves of the other. -- Duplex querela Etym: [L., double complaint] (Eccl. Law), a complaint in the nature of an appeal from the ordinary to his immediate superior, as from a bishop to an archbishop. Mozley & W. -- Duplex telegraphy, a system of telegraphy for sending two messages over the same wire simultaneously. -- Duplex watch, one with a duplex escapement. 
See 2d Dubber. 
Major; in the major mode; as, C dur, that is, C major. 
Short form for Dura mater. 
Pertaining to the dura, or dura mater. 
See Durance, 3. 
An audience hall; the court of a native prince; a state levee; a formal reception of native princes, given by the governor general of India. [India] [Written also darbar.] 
Hard; harsh; severe; rough; toilsome. [R.] The winter is severe, and life is dure and rude. W. H. Russell. 
To last; to continue; to endure. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while. Matt. xiii. 21. 
A colorless, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C6H2(CH3)4, off artificial production, with an odor like camphor. 
The state of compulsion or necessity in which a person is influenced, whether by the unlawful restrain of his liberty or by actual or threatened physical violence, to incur a civil liability or to commit an offense. 
To subject to duress. "The party duressed." Bacon. 
Same as Doorga. 
One or a breed of short-horned cattle, originating in the county of Durham, England. The Durham cattle are noted for their beef-producing quality. 
In the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as, during life; during the space of a year. 
A fruit tree (D. zibethinus, the only species known) of the Indian Archipelago. It bears the durian. 
An instrument for measuring the degree of hardness; especially, an instrument for testing the relative hardness of steel rails and the like. 
Hard. [Obs. & R.] 
A kind of millet, cultivated throughout Asia, and introduced into the south of Europe; a variety of Sorghum vulgare; -- called also Indian millet, and Guinea corn. [Written also dhoorra, dhurra, doura, etc.] 
of Dare. See Dare, v. i. 
A demon or spirit. See Deuce. 
Tending to darkness or blackness; moderately dark or black; dusky. A pathless desert, dusk with horrid shades. Milton. 
To make dusk. [Archaic] After the sun is up, that shadow which dusketh the light of the moon must needs be under the earth. Holland. 
To grow dusk. [R.] Chaucer. 
To make dusk or obscure. [R.] Not utterly defaced, but only duskened. Nicolls. 
Coined money; cash. Down with the dust, deposit the cash; pay down the money. [Slang] "My lord, quoth the king, presently deposit your hundred pounds in gold, or else no going hence all the days of your life. . . . The Abbot down with his dust, and glad he escaped so, returned to Reading." Fuller. -- Dust brand (Bot.), a fungous plant (Ustilago Carbo); -- called also smut. -- Gold dust, fine particles of gold, such as are obtained in placer mining; -- often used as money, being transferred by weight. -- In dust and ashes. See under Ashes. -- To bite the dust. See under Bite, v. t. -- To raise, or kick up, dust, to make a commotion. [Colloq.] -- To throw dust in one's eyes, to mislead; to deceive. [Colloq.] 
A brush of feathers, bristles, or hair, for removing dust from furniture. 
A blowing machine for separating the flour from the bran. 
Pertaining to Holland, or to its inhabitants. Dutch auction. See under Auction. -- Dutch cheese, a small, pound, hard cheese, made from skim milk. -- Dutch clinker, a kind of brick made in Holland. It is yellowish, very hard, and long and narrow in shape. -- Dutch clover (Bot.), common white clover (Trifolium repens), the seed of which was largely imported into England from Holland. -- Dutch concert, a so-called concert in which all the singers sing at the same time different songs. [Slang] -- Dutch courage, the courage of partial intoxication. [Slang] Marryat. -- Dutch door, a door divided into two parts, horizontally, so arranged that the lower part can be shut and fastened, while the upper part remains open. -- Dutch foil, Dutch leaf, or Dutch gold, a kind of brass rich in copper, rolled or beaten into thin sheets, used in Holland to ornament toys and paper; -- called also Dutch mineral, Dutch metal, brass foil, and bronze leaf. -- Dutch liquid (Chem.), a thin, colorless, volatile liquid, C2H4Cl2, of a sweetish taste and a pleasant ethereal odor, produced by the union of chlorine and ethylene or olefiant gas; -- called also Dutch oil. It is so called because discovered (in 1795) by an association of four Hollandish chemists. See Ethylene, and Olefiant. -- Dutch oven, a tin screen for baking before an open fire or kitchen range; also, in the United States, a shallow iron kettle for baking, with a cover to hold burning coals. -- Dutch pink, chalk, or whiting dyed yellow, and used in distemper, and for paper staining. etc. Weale. -- Dutch rush (Bot.), a species of horsetail rush or Equisetum (E. hyemale) having a rough, siliceous surface, and used for scouring and polishing; -- called also scouring rush, and shave grass. See Equisetum. -- Dutch tile, a glazed and painted ornamental tile, formerly much exported, and used in the jambs of chimneys and the like. 
The people of Holland; Dutchmen. 
Subjected to a duty. Ames. 
The efficiency of an engine, especially a steam pumping engine, as measured by work done by a certain quantity of fuel; usually, the number of pounds of water lifted one foot by one bushel of coal (94 lbs. old standard), or by 1 cwt. (112 lbs., England, or 100 lbs., United States). 
The scholastic name for the theme or subject of a fugue, the answer being called the comes, or companion. 
A dwarf supposed to dwell in rocks and hills and to be skillful in working metals. 
The deadly nightshade (Atropa Belladonna), having stupefying qualities. 
A piece of wood set between two studs, posts, etc., to stiffen and support them. 
An animal or plant which is much below the ordinary size of its species or kind; especially, a diminutive human being. 
To hinder from growing to the natural size; to make or keep small; to stunt. Addison. Even the most common moral ideas and affections . . . would be stunted and dwarfed, if cut off from a spiritual background. J. C. Shairp. 
To become small; to diminish in size. Strange power of the world that, the moment we enter it, our great conceptions dwarf. Beaconsfield. 
Much undersized. [R.] Waterhouse. 
To inhabit. [R.] Milton. 
of Dwell. 
To waste away; to pine; to languish. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Gower. 
An element, atom, or radical having a valence or combining power of two. 
Having a valence or combining power of two; capable of being substituted for, combined with, or replaced by, two atoms of hydrogen; as, oxygen and calcium are dyad elements. See Valence. 
Pertaining to the number two; of two parts or elements. Dyadic arithmetic, the same as binary arithmetic. 
; sing. Dyak. (Ethnol.) The aboriginal and most numerous inhabitants of Borneo. They are partially civilized, but retain many barbarous practices. 
A name applied in Germany to the Permian formation, there consisting of two principal groups. 
To stain; to color; to give a new and permanent color to, as by the application of dyestuffs. Cloth to be dyed of divers colors. Trench. The soul is dyed by its thoughts. Lubbock. To dye in the grain, To dye in the wool (Fig.), to dye firmly; to imbue thoroughly. He might truly be termed a legitimate son of the revenue system dyed in the wool. Hawthorne. 
Same as Die, a lot. Spenser. 
The process or art of fixing coloring matters permanently and uniformly in the fibers of wool, cotton, etc. 
One whose occupation is to dye cloth and the like. Dyer's broom, Dyer's rocket, Dyer's weed. See Dyer's broom, under Broom. 
The act of expiring; passage from life to death; loss of life. 
See Dike. The spelling dyke is restricted by some to the geological meaning. 
A unit of measure for dynamical effect or work; a foot pound. See Foot pound. Whewell. 
A dynamo-electric machine. 
A tyrant. [Obs.] Milton. 
The unit of force, in the C. G. S. (Centimeter Gram Second) system of physical units; that is, the force which, acting on a gram for a second, generates a velocity of a centimeter per second. 
Everywhere. [Obs.] The sky eachwhere did show full bright and fair. Spenser. 
See Eddish. 
Same as Eagre. 
Any large, rapacious bird of the Falcon family, esp. of the genera Aquila and Haliæetus. The eagle is remarkable for strength, size, graceful figure, keenness of vision, and extraordinary flight. The most noted species are the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaëtus); the imperial eagle of Europe (A. mogilnik or imperialis); the American bald eagle (Haliæetus leucocephalus); the European sea eagle (H. albicilla); and the great harpy eagle (Thrasaetus harpyia). The figure of the eagle, as the king of birds, is commonly used as an heraldic emblem, and also for standards and emblematic devices. See Bald eagle, Harpy, and Golden eagle. 
A young eagle, or a diminutive eagle. 
A wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height and violence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonly called the bore. See Bore. 
Ale. [Obs.] Shak. 
Uncle. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To bring forth, as young; to yean. "In eaning time." Shak. 
To take in with the ears; to hear. [Sportive] "I eared her language." Two Noble Kinsmen. 
The spike or head of any cereal (as, wheat, rye, barley, Indian corn, etc.), containing the kernels. First the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear. Mark iv. 28. 
To put forth ears in growing; to form ears, as grain; as, this corn ears well. 
To plow or till; to cultivate. "To ear the land." Shak. 
Receiving by the ear. [Obs.] Hewyt. 
A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold. 
Having external ears; having tufts of feathers resembling ears. Eared owl (Zoöl.), an owl having earlike tufts of feathers, as the long-eared owl, and short-eared owl. -- Eared seal (Zoöl.), any seal of the family Otariidæ, including the fur seals and hair seals. See Seal. 
Coming into ear, as corn. 
A plowing of land. [Archaic] Neither earing nor harvest. Gen. xlv. 6. 
A nobleman of England ranking below a marquis, and above a viscount. The rank of an earl corresponds to that of a count (comte) in France, and graf in Germany. Hence the wife of an earl is still called countess. See Count. 
The needlefish. [Ireland] 
The lobe of the ear. 
An earring. [Obs.] The Ismaelites were accustomed to wear golden earlets. Judg. viii. 24 (Douay version). 
Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early. Those that me early shall find me. Prov. viii. 17. You must wake and call me early. Tennyson. 
To mark, as sheep, by cropping or slitting the ear. 
See Ern, n. Sir W. Scott. 
To grieve. [Obs.] 
To long; to yearn. [Obs.] And ever as he rode, his heart did earn To prove his puissance in battle brave. Spenser. 
To curdle, as milk. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Arrish. 
See Erst. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To burrow. Tickell. 
A plowing. [Obs.] Such land as ye break up for barley to sow, Two earths at the least, ere ye sow it, bestow. Tusser. 
Without luster, or dull and roughish to the touch; as, an earthy fracture. 
See Cerumen. 
Any insect of the genus Forticula and related genera, belonging to the order Euplexoptera. 
To influence, or attempt to influence, by whispered insinuations or private talk. "No longer was he earwigged by the Lord Cravens." Lord Campbell. 
Full of ease; suitable for affording ease or rest; quiet; comfortable; restful. Shak. -- Ease"ful*ly, adv. -- Ease"ful*ness, n. 
A frame (commonly) of wood serving to hold a canvas upright, or nearly upright, for the painter's convenience or for exhibition. Easel picture, Easel piece, a painting of moderate size such as is made while resting on an easel, as distinguished from a painting on a wall or ceiling. 
Formerly, the part of the United States east of the Alleghany Mountains, esp. the Eastern, or New England, States; now, commonly, the whole region east of the Mississippi River, esp. that which is north of Maryland and the Ohio River; -- usually with the definite article; as, the commerce of the East is not independent of the agriculture of the West. East by north, East by south, according to the notation of the mariner's compass, that point which lies 11 -- East-northeast, East-southeast, that which lie 22Illust. of Compass. 
Toward the rising sun; or toward the point where the sun rises when in the equinoctial; as, the east gate; the east border; the east side; the east wind is a wind that blows from the east. 
Eastward. 
To move toward the east; to veer from the north or south toward the east; to orientate. 
To veer to the east; -- said of the wind. Russell. 
Not straitened as to money matters; as, the market is easy; -- opposed to tight. Honors are easy (Card Playing), said when each side has an equal number of honors, in which case they are not counted as points. 
Capable of being eaten; fit to be eaten; proper for food; esculent; edible. -- n. 
Eatable growth of grass for horses and cattle, esp. that of aftermath. 
One who, or that which, eats. 
Easy or easily. [Obs.] "Eath to move with plaints." Fairfax. 
Same as Cologne. 
The edges or lower borders of the roof of a building, which overhang the walls, and cast off the water that falls on the roof. 
The European bunting. 
To cause to flow back. [Obs.] Ford. 
Receding; going out; falling; shallow; low. The water there is otherwise very low and ebb. Holland. 
The prince of the evil spirits; Satan. [Written also Eblees.] 
Ebony. [Poetic] "Framed of ebon and ivory." Sir W. Scott. 
A hard, heavy, and durable wood, which admits of a fine polish or gloss. The usual color is black, but it also occurs red or green. 
Made of ebony, or resembling ebony; black; as, an ebony countenance. This ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling. Poe. 
A composition of dust of ivory or of bone with a cement; -- used for imitations of valuable stones and in making moldings, seals, etc. Knight. 
A game at cards, played usually by two persons, in which the players may discard any or all of the cards dealt and receive others from the pack. 
A digression in which a person is introduced speaking his own words. 
The European green woodpecker; -- also called ecall, eaquall, yaffle. [Prov. Eng.] 
Each. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A nymph, the daughter of Air and Earth, who, for love of Narcissus, pined away until nothing was left of her but her voice. Compelled me to awake the courteous Echo To give me answer from her mossy couch. Milton. Echo organ (Mus.), a set organ pipes inclosed in a box so as to produce a soft, distant effect; -- generally superseded by the swell. -- Echo stop (Mus.), a stop upon a harpsichord contrived for producing the soft effect of distant sound. -- To applaud to the echo, to give loud and continuous applause. M. Arnold. I would applaud thee to the very echo, That should applaud again. Shak. 
To give an echo; to resound; to be sounded back; as, the hall echoed with acclamations. "Echoing noise." Blackmore. 
One who, or that which, echoes. 
A kind of frosted cake, containing flavored cream. 
One who follows an eclectic method. 
A medicine made by mixing oils with sirups. John Quincy. 
One of the small galleries run out in front of the glacis. They serve to annoy the enemy's miners. 
Having the color or appearance of unbleached stuff, as silk, linen, or the like. 
Toward the outside or surface; -- opposed to entad. B. G. Wilder. 
Pertaining to, or situated near, the surface; outer; -- opposed to ental. B. G. Wilder. 
Same as Ectopia. 
A method of etching in which the design upon the plate is produced in relief. 
A stable. 
An inflammatory disease of the skin, characterized by the presence of redness and itching, an eruption of small vesicles, and the discharge of a watery exudation, which often dries up, leaving the skin covered with crusts; -- called also tetter, milk crust, and salt rheum. 
The religious or mythological book of the old Scandinavian tribes of German origin, containing two collections of Sagas (legends, myths) of the old northern gods and heroes. 
An adder or serpent. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
Flexible wood worked into the top of hedge stakes, to bind them together. [Obs.] Tusser. 
To bind the top interweaving edder; as, to edder a hedge. [Obs.] 
Aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish. [Eng.] 
The tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. See Taro. 
To move as an eddy, or as in an eddy; to move in a circle. Eddying round and round they sink. Wordsworth. 
To collect as into an eddy. [R.] The circling mountains eddy in From the bare wild the dissipated storm. Thomson. 
Same as oedema. 
The garden where Adam and Eve first dwelt; hence, a delightful region or residence. 
Of or pertaining to Eden; paradisaic. "Edenic joys." Mrs. Browning. 
Same as Aitchbone. 
Gradually; gingerly. [R.] 
Having some of the forms, such as drapery or the like, too sharply defined. "An edgy style of sculpture." Hazlitt. 
The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter edh, capital form th in a similar word: oedher, other, dôedh, doth." March. 
Fit to be eaten as food; eatable; esculent; as, edible fishes. Bacon. -- n. 
A public command or ordinance by the sovereign power; the proclamation of a law made by an absolute authority, as if by the very act of announcement; a decree; as, the edicts of the Roman emperors; the edicts of the French monarch. It stands as an edict in destiny. Shak. Edict of Nantes (French Hist.), an edict issued by Henry IV. (A. D. 1598), giving toleration to Protestants. Its revocation by Louis XIV. (A. D. 1685) was followed by terrible persecutions and the expatriation of thousands of French Protestants. 
To improve. [R.] Swift. 
See Ædile. 
To superintend the publication of; to revise and prepare for publication; to select, correct, arrange, etc., the matter of, for publication; as, to edit a newspaper. Philosophical treatises which have never been edited. Enfield. 
One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends, revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., for publication. 
To bring or draw out; to cause to appear; to produce against counter agency or influence; to extract; to evolve; as, to educe a form from matter. The eternal art educing good from ill. Pope. They want to educe and cultivate what is best and noblest in themselves. M. Arnold. 
That which is educed, as by analysis. Sir W. Hamilton. 
An elongated fish of many genera and species. The common eels of Europe and America belong to the genus Anguilla. The electrical eel is a species of Gymnotus. The so called vinegar eel is a minute nematode worm. See Conger eel, Electric eel, and Gymnotus. 
A boxlike structure with funnel-shaped traps for catching eels; an eelbuck. 
The old plural of Eye. And eke with fatness swollen were his een. Spenser. 
In a strange, unearthly way. 
of Eat. Chaucer. 
Capable of being effaced. 
Goods; movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to embrace real as well as personal property; as, the people escaped from the town with their effects. For effect, for an exaggerated impression or excitement. -- In effect, in fact; in substance. See 8, above. -- Of no effect, Of none effect, To no effect, or Without effect, destitute of results, validity, force, and the like; vain; fruitless. "Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition." Mark vii. 13. "All my study be to no effect." Shak. -- To give effect to, to make valid; to carry out in practice; to push to its results. -- To take effect, to become operative, to accomplish aims. Shak. 
One who effects. 
The common newt; -- called also asker, eft, evat, and ewt. 
No longer capable of producing young, as an animal, or fruit, as the earth; hence, worn out with age; exhausted of energy; incapable of efficient action; no longer productive; barren; sterile. Effete results from virile efforts. Mrs. Browning If they find the old governments effete, worn out, . . . they may seek new ones. Burke. 
The image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether a full figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied to sculptured likenesses, as those on monuments, or to those of the heads of princes on coins and medals, sometimes applied to portraits. To burn, or To hang, in effigy, to burn or to hang an image or picture of a person, as a token of public odium. 
To run out; to flow forth; to pass away. [Obs.] Boyle. 
To form; to shape. [Obs.] Efforming their words within their lips. Jer. Taylor. 
A force acting on a body in the direction of its motion. Rankine. 
To stimulate. [Obs.] "He efforted his spirits." Fuller. 
To frighten; to scare. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To breathe or puff out. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To pour out. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
Spreading loosely, especially on one side; as, an effuse inflorescence. Loudon. 
Effusion; loss. "Much effuse of blood." Shak. 
To pour out like a stream or freely; to cause to exude; to shed. [R.] With gushing blood effused. Milton. 
To emanate; to issue. Thomson. 
See Afrit. 
Again; afterwards; soon; quickly. [Obs.] I wold never eft comen into the snare. Spenser. 
An exclamation expressing exultation or surprise, etc. 
Equal; impartial. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Ægean. 
The state of needing, or of suffering a natural want. [R.] J. Grote. 
An impetuous flood; a bore. See Eagre. 
To cast or throw out; to void, as excrement; to excrete, as the indigestible matter of the food; in an extended sense, to excrete by the lungs, skin, or kidneys. 
That which is egested or thrown off from the body by the various excretory channels; excrements; -- opposed to ingesta. 
The oval or roundish body laid by domestic poultry and other birds, tortoises, etc. It consists of a yolk, usually surrounded by the "white" or albumen, and inclosed in a shell or strong membrane. 
To urge on; to instigate; to incite Adam and Eve he egged to ill. Piers Plowman. [She] did egg him on to tell How fair she was. Warner. 
Any bombycid moth of the genera Eriogaster and Lasiocampa; as, the oak eggar (L. roboris) of Europe. 
One who gathers eggs; an eggler. 
One who eggs or incites. 
A place where eggs are deposited (as by sea birds) or kept; a nest of eggs. [R.] 
A kind of posset made of eggs, brandy, sugar, and ale. Lamb. 
One who gathers, or deals in, eggs. 
A drink consisting of eggs beaten up with sugar, milk, and (usually) wine or spirits. 
Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The European perch when two years old. [Prov. Eng.] 
The conscious and permanent subject of all psychical experiences, whether held to be directly known or the product of reflective thought; -- opposed to non-ego. 
The doctrine of certain extreme adherents or disciples of Descartes and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which finds all the elements of knowledge in the ego and the relations which it implies or provides for. 
A believer in egoism. 
Personality. [R.] Swift. 
See Eager, and Eagre. [Obs.] 
The passing off from the sun's disk of an inferior planet, in a transit. 
To go out; to depart; to leave. 
The name of several species of herons which bear plumes on the back. They are generally white. Among the best known species are the American egret (Ardea, or Herodias, egretta); the great egret (A. alba); the little egret (A. garzetta), of Europe; and the American snowy egret (A. candidissima). A bunch of egrets killed for their plumage. G. W. Cable. 
A kind of sour cherry. Bacon. 
A mineral of a green color and pearly luster; a hydrous phosphate of copper. 
Any species of sea duck of the genus Somateria, esp. Somateria mollissima, which breeds in the northern parts of Europe and America, and lines its nest with fine down (taken from its own body) which is an article of commerce; -- called also eider duck. The American eider (S. Dresseri), the king eider (S. spectabilis), and the spectacled eider (Arctonetta Fischeri) are related species. Eider down. Etym: [Cf. Icel. æ\'ebardun, Sw. eiderdun, Dan. ederduun.] Down of the eider duck, much sought after as an article of luxury. 
An exclamation expressing delight. 
An island in a river; an ait. [Obs.] "Osiers on their eights." Evelyn. 
Seven and one; as, eight years. 
Eight and ten; as, eighteen pounds. 
The interval of an octave. 
Eight times ten; fourscore. 
Eldest; firstborn. Blackstone. 
See Eking. 
An image or effigy; -- used rather in an abstract sense, and rarely for a work of art. 
Age. [Obs.] Fairfax. 
Air. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Aerie, and Eyrie. 
Vinegar; verjuice. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 
precedes two, or more, coördinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or. Either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth. 1 Kings xviii. 27. Few writers hesitate to use either in what is called a triple alternative; such as, We must either stay where we are, proceed, or recede. Latham. 
To cast out; to evict; to dispossess; as, to eject tenants from an estate. 
Matter ejected; material thrown out; as, the ejecta of a volcano; the ejecta, or excreta, of the body. 
Gomuti fiber. See Gomuti. 
To increase; to add to; to augment; -- now commonly used with out, the notion conveyed being to add to, or piece out by a laborious, inferior, or scanty addition; as, to eke out a scanty supply of one kind with some other. "To eke my pain." Spenser. He eked out by his wits an income of barely fifty pounds. Macaulay. 
In addition; also; likewise. [Obs. or Archaic] 'T will be prodigious hard to prove That this is eke the throne of love. Prior. A trainband captain eke was he Of famous London town. Cowper. 
An addition. [R.] Clumsy ekes that may well be spared. Geddes. 
Originally, the highest note in the scale of Guido; hence, proverbially, any extravagant saying. "Why, this is above E-la!" Beau. & Fl. 
A genus of palms. 
Ardor inspired by passion or enthusiasm. 
To throw as a lance; to hurl; to dart. [R.] While thy unerring hand elanced . . . a dart. Prior. 
A species of large South African antelope (Oreas canna). It is valued both for its hide and flesh, and is rapidly disappearing in the settled districts; -- called also Cape elk. 
A kite of the genus Elanus. 
A genus of venomous snakes found both in America and the Old World. Many species are known. See Coral snake, under Coral. 
To slip or glide away; to pass away silently, as time; -- used chiefly in reference to time. Eight days elapsed; at length a pilgrim came. Hoole. 
With elation. 
One who, or that which, elates. 
An elastic spiral filament for dispersing the spores, as in some liverworts. 
The active principle of elaterium, being found in the juice of the wild or squirting cucumber (Ecballium agreste, formerly Motordica Elaterium) and other related species. It is extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance, which is a violent purgative. 
Olefiant gas or ethylene; -- so called by Berzelius from its forming an oil combining with chlorine. [Written also elayle.] See Ethylene. 
A sharp angle in any surface of wainscoting or other woodwork; the upright sides which flank any paneled work, as the sides of windows, where the jamb makes an elbow with the window back. Gwilt. 
To push or hit with the elbow, as when one pushes by another. They [the Dutch] would elbow our own aldermen off the Royal Exchange. Macaulay. To elbow one's way, to force one's way by pushing with the elbows; as, to elbow one's way through a crowd. 
The base of a window casing, on which the elbows may rest. 
An Arabian tree (Trichilia emetica). The fruit, which is emetic, is sometimes employed in the composition of an ointment for the cure of the itch. 
Old. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To age; to grow old. [Obs.] 
To make old or ancient. [Obs.] Time, that eldeth all things. Rom. of R. 
A clergyman authorized to administer all the sacraments; as, a traveling elder. Presiding elder (Meth. Ch.), an elder commissioned by a bishop to have the oversight of the churches and preachers in a certain district. -- Ruling elder, a lay presbyter or member of a Presbyterian church session. Schaff. 
A genus of shrubs (Sambucus) having broad umbels of white flowers, and small black or red berries. 
Made of elder. [Obs.] He would discharge us as boys do eldern guns. Marston. 
Fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
Chosen as the object of mercy or divine favor; set apart to eternal life. "The elect angels." 1 Tim. v. 21. 
Those who are chosen for salvation. Shall not God avenge his won elect Luke xviii. 7. 
To designate, choose, or select, as an object of mercy or favor. 
A judicial writ of execution, by which a defendant's goods are appraised and delivered to the plaintiff, and, if no sufficient to satisfy the debt, all of his lands are delivered, to be held till the debt is paid by the rents and profits, or until the defendant's interest has expired. 
A mournful or plaintive poem; a funereal song; a poem of lamentation. Shak. 
A fragrant gum resin obtained chiefly tropical trees of the genera Amyris and Canarium. A. elemifera yields Mexican elemi; C. commune, the Manila elemi. It is used in the manufacture of varnishes, also in ointments and plasters. 
A transparent, colorless oil obtained from elemi resin by distillation with water; also, a crystallizable extract from the resin. 
Pertaining to an elench. 
Sorrowful; wretched; full of trouble. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A pupil; a student. 
Ten and one added; as, eleven men. 
The eleven men selected to play on one side in a match, as the representatives of a club or a locality; as, the all-England eleven. 
To entangle mischievously, as an elf might do. Elf all my hair in knots. Shak. 
Relating to elves. 
A little elf or urchin. Shenstone. 
Of or relating to the elves; elflike; implike; weird; scarcely human; mischievous, as though caused by elves. "Elfish light." Coleridge. The elfish intelligence that was so familiar an expression on her small physiognomy. Hawthorne. 
A little elf. 
Elicited; drawn out; made real; open; evident. [Obs.] "An elicit act of equity." Jer. Taylor. 
To draw out or entice forth; to bring to light; to bring out against the will; to deduce by reason or argument; as, to elicit truth by discussion. 
To cut off, as a vowel or a syllable, usually the final one; to subject to elision. 
The cutting off or suppression of a vowel or syllable, for the sake of meter or euphony; esp., in poetry, the dropping of a final vowel standing before an initial vowel in the following word, when the two words are drawn together. 
An elector or chooser; one of two persons appointed by a court to return a jury or serve a writ when the sheriff and the coroners are disqualified. 
A choice or select body; the flower; as, the élite of society. 
To extract. [Obs.] Marston. 
A tincture with more than one base; a compound tincture or medicine, composed of various substances, held in solution by alcohol in some form. 
A large deer, of several species. The European elk (Alces machlis or Cervus alces) is closely allied to the American moose. The American elk, or wapiti (Cervus Canadensis), is closely related to the European stag. See Moose, and Wapiti. Irish elk (Paleon.), a large, extinct, Quaternary deer (Cervus giganteus) with widely spreading antlers. Its remains have been found beneath the peat of swamps in Ireland and England. See Illustration in Appendix; also Illustration of Antler. -- Cape elk (Zoöl.), the eland. 
The buffalo nut. See under Buffalo. 
A measure for cloth; -- now rarely used. It is of different lengths in different countries; the English ell being 45 inches, the Dutch or Flemish ell 27, the Scotch about 37. 
See L. 
The red gurnard or cuckoo fish. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Else. [Obs.] 
A tree of the genus Ulmus, of several species, much used as a shade tree, particularly in America. The English elm is Ulmus campestris; the common American or white elm is U. Americana; the slippery or red elm, U. fulva. Elm beetle (Zoöl.), one of several species of beetles (esp. Galeruca calmariensis), which feed on the leaves of the elm. -- Elm borer (Zoöl.), one of several species of beetles of which the larvæ bore into the wood or under the bark of the elm (esp. Saperda tridentata). -- Elm butterfly (Zoöl.), one of several species of butterflies, which, in the caterpillar state, feed on the leaves of the elm (esp. Vanessa antiopa and Grapta comma). See Comma butterfly, under Comma. -- Elm moth (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of moths of which the larvæ destroy the leaves of the elm (esp. Eugonia subsignaria, called elm spanworm). -- Elm sawfly (Zoöl.), a large sawfly (Cimbex Americana). The larva, which is white with a black dorsal stripe, feeds on the leaves of the elm. 
Belonging to elms. [Obs.] 
Abounding with elms. The simple spire and elmy grange. T. Warton. 
A panegyrical funeral oration. 
One of the principal names by which God is designated in the Hebrew Scriptures. 
To convey to a distance, or beyond the jurisdiction, or to conceal, as goods liable to distress. The sheriff may return that the goods or beasts are eloigned. Blackstone. 
See Eloign. 
To depart to, or be at, a distance; esp., to recede apparently from the sun, as a planet in its orbit. [R.] 
To run away, or escape privately, from the place or station to which one is bound by duty; -- said especially of a woman or a man, either married or unmarried, who runs away with a paramour or a sweetheart. Great numbers of them [the women] have eloped from their allegiance. Addison. 
One who elopes. 
A genus of fishes. See Saury. 
Other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming What else shall I give Do you expect anything else "Bastards and else." Shak. 
To some, or any, other place; as, you will have to go elsewhither for it. R. of Gloucester."For elsewhither was I bound." Carlyle. 
A shoemaker's awl. [Prov. Eng.] 
To avoid slyly, by artifice, stratagem, or dexterity; to escape from in a covert manner; to mock by an unexpected escape; to baffle; as, to elude an officer; to elude detection, inquiry, search, comprehension; to elude the force of an argument or a blow. Me gentle Delia beckons from the plain, Then, hid in shades, eludes he eager swain. Pope. The transition from fetichism to polytheism seems a gradual process of which the stages elude close definition. Tylor. 
The sixth month of the Jewish year, by the sacred reckoning, or the twelfth, by the civil reckoning, corresponding nearly to the month of September. 
To wash out. [R.] Arbuthnot. 
Of or pertaining to certain veins of feldspathic or porphyritic rock crossing metalliferous veins in the mining districts of Cornwall; as, an elvan course. 
An old form of Elf. 
A young eel; a young conger or sea eel; -- called also elvene. 
pl. of Elf. 
In an elvish manner. Sir W. Scott. 
See Ellwand. 
See Embase. [Obs.] 
To encircle or embrace. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 
One who embalms. 
To throw up a bank so as to confine or to defend; to protect by a bank of earth or stone. 
Same as Embarkation. 
Embarkation. [R.] Middleton. 
To bring down or lower, as in position, value, etc.; to debase; to degrade; to deteriorate. [Obs.] Embased the valleys, and embossed the hills. Sylvester. Alloy in coin of gold . . . may make the metal work the better, but it embaseth it. Bacon. Such pitiful embellishments of speech as serve for nothing but to embase divinity. South. 
To bathe; to soothe or lull as by bathing. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To shut in, or shelter, as in a bay. If that the Turkish fleet Be not ensheltered and embayed, they are drowned. Shak. 
To make brilliant with beams. [R.] G. Fletcher. 
To lay as in a bed; to lay in surrounding matter; to bed; as, to embed a thing in clay, mortar, or sand. 
A lighted coal, smoldering amid ashes; -- used chiefly in the plural, to signify mingled coals and ashes; the smoldering remains of a fire. "He rakes hot embers." Dryden. He takes a lighted ember out of the covered vessel. Colebrooke. 
Making a circuit of the year of the seasons; recurring in each quarter of the year; as, ember fasts. 
To represent by an emblem; to symbolize. [R.] Emblemed by the cozening fig tree. Feltham. 
To form into a body; to invest with a body; to collect into a body, a united mass, or a whole; to incorporate; as, to embody one's ideas in a treatise. [Written also imbody.] Devils embodied and disembodied. Sir W. Scott. The soul, while it is embodied, can no more be divided from sin. South. 
To unite in a body, a mass, or a collection; to coalesce. [Written also imbody.] Firmly to embody against this court party. Burke. 
To boil with anger; to effervesce. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To cause to boil with anger; to irritate; to chafe. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Embolic invagination. See under Invagination. 
To make to foam at the mouth, like a hunted animal. [Obs.] 
To seek the bushy forest; to hide in the woods. [Obs.] S. Butler. 
To bend like a bow; to curve. "Embowed arches." [Obs. or R.] Sir W. Scott. With gilded horns embowed like the moon. Spenser. 
To form like a bowl; to give a globular shape to. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 
To inclose, as in a box; to imbox. 
To imbrue; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See Imbrue, Embrew. [Obs.] 
The first rudiments of an organism, whether animal or plant; as: (a) The young of an animal in the womb, or more specifically, before its parts are developed and it becomes a fetus (see Fetus). (b) The germ of the plant, which is inclosed in the seed and which is developed by germination. In embryo, in an incipient or undeveloped state; in conception, but not yet executed. "The company little suspected what a noble work I had then in embryo." Swift. 
Pertaining to an embryo; rudimentary; undeveloped; as, an embryo bud. 
To enlarge in the way of bulk. [R.] Latham. 
To place or hide in a thicket; to ambush. [Obs.] Shelton. 
To employ. [Obs.] Skelton. 
An uncle. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Same as Emir. 
To purge of faults; to make better; to correct; esp., to make corrections in (a literary work); to alter for the better by textual criticism, generally verbal. 
To rise out of a fluid; to come forth from that in which anything has been plunged, enveloped, or concealed; to issue and appear; as, to emerge from the water or the ocean; the sun emerges from behind the moon in an eclipse; to emerge from poverty or obscurity. "Thetis . . . emerging from the deep." Dryden. Those who have emerged from very low, some from the lowest, classes of society. Burke. 
Considered as having done sufficient public service, and therefore honorably discharged. [Obs.] Evelyn. 
Corundum in the form of grains or powder, used in the arts for grinding and polishing hard substances. Native emery is mixed with more or less magnetic iron. See the Note under Corundum. Emery board, cardboard pulp mixed with emery and molded into convenient. -- Emery cloth or paper, cloth or paper on which the powder of emery is spread and glued for scouring and polishing. -- Emery wheel, a wheel containing emery, or having a surface of emery. In machine shops, it is sometimes called a buff wheel, and by the manufacturers of cutlery, a glazer. 
A vomiting. 
Inducing to vomit; exciting the stomach to discharge its contents by the mouth. -- n. 
A seditious tumult; an outbreak. 
One of the natives of France who were opposed to the first Revolution, and who left their country in consequence. 
Sending forth; emissive. Boyle. 
An ant. Emmet hunter (Zoöl.), the wryneck. 
To mew or coop up. [Obs.] Shak. 
To move; to rouse; to excite. [Obs.] 
An orange-red crystalline substance, C15H10O5, obtained from the buckthorn, rhubarb, etc., and regarded as a derivative of anthraquinone; -- so called from a species of rhubarb (Rheum emodei). 
To move. [Obs.] Thomson. 
To impair. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To make pale. [Obs.] No bloodless malady empales their face. G. Fletcher. 
Same as Impale. 
To make a park of; to inclose, as with a fence; to impark. [Obs.] 
A perfumed powder sprinkled upon the body to mask the odor of sweat. 
To put in pawn; to pledge; to impawn. To sell, empawn, and alienate the estates. Milman. 
Empire; sovereignty; dominion. [Archaic] Shak. Struggling for my woman's empery. Mrs. Browning. 
New York; -- a nickname alluding to its size and wealth. 
That which engages or occupies a person; fixed or regular service or business; employment. The whole employ of body and of mind. Pope. In one's employ, in one's service. 
To empty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An empty box, crate, cask, etc.; -- used in commerce, esp. in transportation of freight; as, "special rates for empties." 
To deprive of the contents; to exhaust; to make void or destitute; to make vacant; to pour out; to discharge; as, to empty a vessel; to empty a well or a cistern. The clouds . . . empty themselves upon the earth. Eccl. xi. 3. 
The lees of beer, cider, etc.; yeast. [U.S.] 
See Impugn. 
A phantom or specter. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 
See Emerods. [Obs.] 
A large Australian bird, of two species (Dromaius Novæ- Hollandiæ and D. irroratus), related to the cassowary and the ostrich. The emu runs swiftly, but is unable to fly. [Written also emeu and emew.] 
To emulate. [Obs.] "Emuled of many." Spenser. 
To milk out; to drain. [Obs.] Bailey. 
A fresh-water tortoise of the family Emydidæ. 
A group of chelonians which comprises many species of fresh- water tortoises and terrapins. 
The act of enabling, or the state of being enabled; ability. Bacon. 
Purpose; determination. [Obs.] 
A glassy, opaque bead obtained by the blowpipe. 
To practice the art of enameling. 
Relating to the art of enameling; as, enamel painting. Tomlinson. 
To inflame with love; to charm; to captivate; -- with of, or with, before the person or thing; as, to be enamored with a lady; to be enamored of books or science. [Written also enamour.] Passionately enamored of this shadow of a dream. W. Irving. 
To arch. [Obs.] Lydgate. 
Growing out. 
To imbibe. [Obs.] Skelton. 
To confine in a cage; to coop up. Shak. 
To form and occupy a camp; to prepare and settle in temporary habitations, as tents or huts; to halt on a march, pitch tents, or form huts, and remain for the night or for a longer time, as an army or a company traveling. The host of the Philistines encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 1 Chron. xi. 15. 
To form into a camp; to place in a temporary habitation, or quarters. Bid him encamp his soldiers. Shak. 
To inclose as in a case. See Incase. Beau. & Fl. 
To turn into cash; to cash. Sat. Rev. 
To hide in, or as in, a cave or recess. "Do but encave yourself." Shak. 
Once more; again; -- used by the auditors and spectators of plays, concerts, and other entertainments, to call for a repetition of a particular part. 
A call or demand (as, by continued applause) for a repetition; as, the encores were numerous. 
To call for a repetition or reappearance of; as, to encore a song or a singer. [Rebecca] insisted upon encoring one of the duets. Thackeray. 
To make a monk (or wearer of a cowl) of. [R.] Drayton. 
To inclose in a cyst. 
One of the yarns of the worsted warp in a Brussels carpet. 
To come to the ultimate point; to be finished; to come to a close; to cease; to terminate; as, a voyage ends; life ends; winter ends. 
To darken. [Obs.] Feltham. 
With affection or endearment; dearly. 
One who, or that which, makes an end of something; as, the ender of my life. 
See Indict. 
The final syllable or letter of a word; the part joined to the stem. See 3d Case, 5. Ending day, day of death. Chaucer. 
See Indite. Spenser. 
A composite herb (Cichorium Endivia). Its finely divided and much curled leaves, when blanched, are used for salad. Wild endive (Bot.), chicory or succory. 
To cover as with a dome. 
To put upon the back or outside of anything; -- the older spelling of endorse. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To endow. [Obs.] Waterhouse. 
To invest. Latham. Tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high. Luke xxiv. 49. Endue them . . . with heavenly gifts. Book of Common Prayer. 
An older spelling of Endow. Tillotson. 
Endurance. [Obs.] South. 
See Ependyma. 
Same as Æneid. 
An injection, or clyster, thrown into the rectum as a medicine, or to impart nourishment. Hoblyn. 
One hostile to another; one who hates, and desires or attempts the injury of, another; a foe; an adversary; as, an enemy of or to a person; an enemy to truth, or to falsehood. To all good he enemy was still. Spenser. I say unto you, Love your enemies. Matt. v. 44. The enemy (Mil.), the hostile force. In this sense it is construed with the verb and pronoun either in the singular or the plural, but more commonly in the singular; as, we have met the enemy and he is ours or they are ours. It was difficult in such a country to track the enemy. It was impossible to drive him to bay. Macaulay. 
Hostile; inimical. [Obs.] They . . . every day grow more enemy to God. Jer. Taylor. 
Capacity for performing work. 
To weaken; to enervate. [Obs.] Milton. 
To famish; to starve. 
Contaminated with illegality. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To set on fire. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To infold. See Infold. 
To form; to fashion. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To set free. [Obs.] "The enfreed Antenor." Shak. 
To come into gear with; as, the teeth of one cogwheel engage those of another, or one part of a clutch engages the other part. 
To be in gear, as two cogwheels working together. 
To put in jail; to imprison. [Obs.] Shak. 
To gild; to make splendent. Fair Helena, who most engilds the night. Shak. 
A compound machine by which any physical power is applied to produce a given physical effect. Engine driver, one who manages an engine; specifically, the engineer of a locomotive. -- Engine lathe. (Mach.) See under Lathe. -- Engine tool, a machine tool. J. Whitworth. -- Engine turning (Fine Arts), a method of ornamentation by means of a rose engine. 
Originally, the art of managing engines; in its modern and extended sense, the art and science by which the mechanical properties of matter are made useful to man in structures and machines; the occupation and work of an engineer. 
To gird; to encompass. Shak. 
To engird. [R.] Collins. 
A favorite; a paramour; an ingle. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To cajole or coax, as favorite. [Obs.] I 'll presently go and engle some broker. B. Jonson. 
To join or close fast together, as with glue; as, a coffer well englued. Gower. 
To feed with eagerness or voracity; to stuff one's self with food. Beaumont. 
To absorb or swallow up as in a gulf. It quite engulfs all human thought. Young. 
Variant of Engine. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To surround with a halo. 
To encourage. [Obs.] "To enhort the people." Chaucer. 
Relating to or resembling an enigma; not easily explained or accounted for; darkly expressed; obscure; puzzling; as, an enigmatical answer. 
To put into jail; to imprison. [R.] Donne. 
To prohibit or restrain by a judicial order or decree; to put an injunction on. This is a suit to enjoin the defendants from disturbing the plaintiffs. Kent. 
To join or unite. [Obs.] Hooker. 
To take satisfaction; to live in happiness. [R.] Milton. 
To bind or encircle with lace, or as with lace; to lace; to encircle; to enfold; hence, to entangle. Ropes of pearl her neck and breast enlace. P. Fletcher. 
To cover or dress with lard or grease; to fatten. Shak. 
See Inlay. 
To adorn by illuminating or ornamenting with colored and decorated letters and figures, as a book or manuscript. [R.] Palsgrave. 
To chain together; to connect, as by links. Shak. 
To enliven. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
To lock; to inclose. 
To coat with clay; to lute. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To catch or entangle in, or as in, meshes. Shak. My doubts enmesh me if I try. Lowell. 
See Emmew. 
To infold, as in a mist. 
Covered with moss; mossed. Keats. 
See Emmove. [Obs.] 
To immure. [Obs.] 
The number nine or a group of nine. The Enneads, the title given to the works of the philosopher Plotinus, published by his pupil Porphyry; -- so called because each of the six books into which it is divided contains nine chapters. 
To make new. [Obs.] Skelton. 
A feeling of weariness and disgust; dullness and languor of spirits, arising from satiety or want of interest; tedium. T. Gray. 
Affected with ennui; weary in spirits; emotionally exhausted. 
One who is affected with ennui. 
Without a node. Gray. 
To clear of knots; to make clear. [Obs.] Cockeram. 
Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One of the orders of Nemertina, characterized by the presence of a peculiar armature of spines or plates in the proboscis. 
Enormous. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Satisfying desire; giving content; adequate to meet the want; sufficient; -- usually, and more elegantly, following the noun to which it belongs. How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare! Luke xv. 17. 
A sufficiency; a quantity which satisfies desire, is adequate to the want, or is equal to the power or ability; as, he had enough to do take care of himself. "Enough is as good as a feast." And Esau said, I have enough, my brother. Gen. xxxiii. 9. 
An exclamation denoting sufficiency, being a shortened form of it is enough. 
A form of Enough. [Archaic] Shak. 
To enroot; to implant. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To fill with rage; to provoke to frenzy or madness; to make furious. 
To place in ranks or in order. [R.] Shak. 
Thrown into ecstasy; transported; enraptured. Shak. 
One who enriches. 
To encircle. [R.] The Muses and the Graces, grouped in threes, Enringed a billowing fountain in the midst. Tennyson. 
To rive; to cleave. [Obs.] 
To invest or adorn with a robe; to attire. 
One who enrolls or registers. 
To fix by the root; to fix fast; to implant deep. Shak. 
Entity, being, or existence; an actually existing being; also, God, as the Being of Beings. 
To make safe. [Obs.] Hall. 
Having sword-shaped leaves, or appendages; ensiform. 
To impress with a seal; to mark as with a seal; hence, to ratify. [Obs.] This deed I do enseal. Piers Plowman. 
To sew up; to inclose by a seam; hence, to include; to contain. Camden. 
To cover with grease; to defile; to pollute. [Obs.] In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed. Shak. 
To sear; to dry up. [Obs.] Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb. Shak. 
To close eyes of; to seel; -- said in reference to a hawk. [Obs.] 
The rank or office of an ensign. 
To store (green fodder) in a silo; to prepare as silage. -- En"si*list (#), n. 
To place in the sky or in heaven. [R.] "A thing enskied and sainted." Shak. 
To indue or imbue (a body) with soul. [R.] Emerson. 
To follow; to pursue; to follow and overtake. [Obs.] "Seek peace, and ensue it." 1 Pet. iii. 11. To ensue his example in doing the like mischief. Golding. 
To follow or come afterward; to follow as a consequence or in chronological succession; to result; as, an ensuing conclusion or effect; the year ensuing was a cold one. So spoke the Dame, but no applause ensued. Pope. Damage to the mind or the body, or to both, ensues, unless the exciting cause be presently removed. I. Taylor. 
See Insurer. 
Toward the inside or central part; away from the surface; -- opposed to ectad. B. G. Wilder. 
Pertaining to, or situated near, central or deep parts; inner; -- opposed to ectal. B. G. Wilder. 
To tame. [Obs.] Shak. 
To attend to; to apply one's self to. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A treatise upon, or description of, the intestinal glands. 
To draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract; as, the bait enticed the fishes. Often in a bad sense: To lead astray; to induce to evil; to tempt; as, the sirens enticed them to listen. Roses blushing as they blow, And enticing men to pull. Beau. & Fl. My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Prov. i. 10. Go, and thine erring brother gain, Entice him home to be forgiven. Keble. 
A name originally given to a kind of beer combining qualities of different kinds of beer. [Eng.] "Foker's Entire." Thackeray. 
A real being, whether in thought (as an ideal conception) or in fact; being; essence; existence. Self-subsisting entities, such as our own personality. Shairp. Fortune is no real entity, . . . but a mere relative signification. Bentley. 
To take with toils or bring into toils; to insnare. [R.] Entoiled in woofed phantasies. Keats. 
To deposit in a tomb, as a dead body; to bury; to inter; to inhume. Hooker. 
To catch in a trap; to insnare; hence, to catch, as in a trap, by artifices; to involve in difficulties or distresses; to catch or involve in contradictions; as, to be entrapped by the devices of evil men. A golden mesh, to entrap the hearts of men. Shak. 
In French usage, a dish served at the beginning of dinner to give zest to the appetite; in English usage, a side dish, served with a joint, or between the courses, as a cutlet, scalloped oysters, etc. 
The exhibition or depositing of a ship's papers at the customhouse, to procure license to land goods; or the giving an account of a ship's cargo to the officer of the customs, and obtaining his permission to land the goods. See Enter, v. t., 8, and Entrance, n., 
To tune; to intone. Chaucer. 
See Inure. 
To vie; to emulate; to strive. [Obs.] Spenser. 
One who envies; one who desires inordinately what another possesses. 
An explanatory or commendatory postscript to a poem, essay, or book; -- also in the French from, l'envoi. The envoy of a ballad is the "sending" of it forth. Skeat. 
Stored or furnished with wine. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Inwall. Sir P. Sidney. 
To wind about; to encircle. In the circle of his arms Enwound us both. Tennyson. 
To envelop. See Inwrap. 
An unorganized or unformed ferment, in distinction from an organized or living ferment; a soluble, or chemical, ferment. Ptyalin, pepsin, diastase, and rennet are good examples of enzymes. 
Pertaining to the first in time of the three subdivisions into which the Tertiary formation is divided by geologists, and alluding to the approximation in its life to that of the present era; as, Eocene deposits. -- n. 
Formed, or deposited, by the action of wind, as dunes. Eolian attachment, Eolian harp. See Æolian. 
See Æolic. 
A genus of nudibranch mollusks having clusters of branchial papillæ along the back. See Ceratobranchia. [Written also Æolis.] 
Aurora, the goddess of morn. 
A yellow or brownish red dyestuff obtained by the action of bromine on fluoresceïn, and named from the fine rose-red which it imparts to silk. It is also used for making a fine red ink. Its solution is fluorescent. 
Of or pertaining to rocks or strata older than the Paleozoic, in many of which the eozoön has been found. 
The moon's age at the beginning of the calendar year, or the number of days by which the last new moon has preceded the beginning of the year. Annual epact, the excess of the solar year over the lunar year, -- being eleven days. -- Menstrual epact, or Monthly epact, the excess of a calendar month over a lunar. 
In ancient Greece, the governor or perfect of a province; in modern Greece, the ruler of an eparchy. 
The shoulder of a bastion, or the place where its face and flank meet and form the angle, called the angle of the shoulder. 
A genus of spiders, including the common garden spider (E. diadema). They spin geometrical webs. See Garden spider. 
See Epencephalon. 
A part of the sacerdotal habit among Jews, being a covering for the back and breast, held together on the shoulders by two clasps or brooches of onyx stones set in gold, and fastened by a girdle of the same stuff as the ephod. The ephod for the priests was of plain linen; that for the high priest was richly embroidered in colors. The breastplate of the high priest was worn upon the ephod in front. Exodus xxviii. 6-12. 
A magistrate; one of a body of five magistrates chosen by the people of ancient Sparta. They exercised control even over the king. 
A stage in the development of discophorous medusæ, when they first begin to swim about after being detached from the strobila. See Strobila. 
Narrated in a grand style; pertaining to or designating a kind of narrative poem, usually called an heroic poem, in which real or fictitious events, usually the achievements of some hero, are narrated in an elevated style. The epic poem treats of one great, complex action, in a grand style and with fullness of detail. T. Arnold. 
An epic or heroic poem. See Epic, a. 
Epic. -- Ep"ic*al*ly, adv. Poems which have an epical character. Brande & C. His [Wordsworth's] longer poems (miscalled epical). Lowell. 
See Perigee. [Obs.] 
A division of time characterized by the prevalence of similar conditions of the earth; commonly a minor division or part of a period. The long geological epoch which stored up the vast coal measures. J. C. Shairp. 
See Epoch. J. Adams. 
Pertaining to, or resembling, an epode. 
One instructed in the mysteries of a secret system. Carlyle. 
An epic. 
A hard tumor developed from the gums. 
A draught or model from which to build; especially, one of the full size of the work to be done; a detailed drawing. 
Intended for voices of one kind only, either all male or all female; -- opposed to mixed. [R.] 
One who believes in equalizing the condition of men; a leveler. 
A circle around whose circumference a planet or the center of ann epicycle was conceived to move uniformly; -- called also eccentric equator. 
To make equal; to reduce to an average; to make such an allowance or correction in as will reduce to a common standard of comparison; to reduce to mean time or motion; as, to equate payments; to equate lines of railroad for grades or curves; equated distances. Palgrave gives both scrolle and scrowe and equates both to F[rench] rolle. Skeat (Etymol. Dict. ). Equating for grades (Railroad Engin.), adding to the measured distance one mile for each twenty feet of ascent. -- Equating for curves, adding half a mile for each 360 degrees of curvature. 
Same as Equerry. 
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a horse. The shoulders, body, things, and mane are equine; the head completely bovine. Sir J. Barrow. 
Furnished with equipage. Well dressed, well bred. Well equipaged, is ticket good enough. Cowper. 
An equitable claim; an equity of redemption; as, an equity to a settlement, or wife's equity, etc. I consider the wife's equity to be too well settled to be shaken. Kent. 
A genus of mammals, including the horse, ass, etc. 
To shoot forth, as rays of light; to beam; to radiate. Dr. H. More. 
Represented with jagged and uneven edges, as is torn off; -- used esp. of the head or limb of a beast. Cf. Couped. 
One who, or that which, erases; esp., a sharp instrument or a piece of rubber used to erase writings, drawings, etc. 
The Muse who presided over lyric and amatory poetry. 
A rare metallic element associated with several other rare elements in the mineral gadolinite from Ytterby in Sweden. Symbol Er. Atomic weight 165.9. Its salts are rose-colored and give characteristic spectra. Its sesquioxide is called erbia. 
The earth. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. Erd shrew (Zoöl.), the common European shrew (Sorex vulgaris); the shrewmouse. 
To plow. [Obs.] See Ear, v. t. Chaucer. 
A place of nether darkness, being the gloomy space through which the souls passed to Hades. See Milton's "Paradise Lost," Book II., line 883. 
Standing upright, with reference to the earth's surface, or to the surface to which it is attached. 
To rise upright. [Obs.] By wet, stalks do erect. Bacon. 
A garden plot, usually about half an acre. [Cape Colony] 
The unit of work or energy in the C. G. S. system, being the amount of work done by a dyne working through a distance of one centimeter; the amount of energy expended in moving a body one centimeter against a force of one dyne. One foot pound is equal to 13,560,000 ergs. 
Potential energy; negative value of the force function. 
To deduce logically, as conclusions. [Obs.] Hewyt. 
Therefore; consequently; -- often used in a jocular way. Shak. 
A stub, like soft horn, about the size of a chestnut, situated behind and below the pastern joint. 
A genus of shrubby plants, including the heaths, many of them producing beautiful flowers. 
An early, and now a poetic, name of Ireland. 
The sea holly. See Eryngo. 
An avenging deity; one of the Furies; sometimes, conscience personified. [Written also Erinnys.] 
ASlothful. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
To grieve; to feel sad. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An Armenian. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A valuable fur-bearing animal of the genus Mustela (M. erminea), allied to the weasel; the stoat. It is found in the northern parts of Asia, Europe, and America. In summer it is brown, but in winter it becomes white, except the tip of the tail, which is always black. 
To clothe with, or as with, ermine. The snows that have ermined it in the winter. Lowell. 
A hermit. [Obs.] 
To stir with strong emotion; to grieve; to mourn. 
See Earnest. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To eat into or away; to corrode; as, canker erodes the flesh. "The blood . . . erodes the vessels." Wiseman. The smaller charge is more apt to . . . erode the gun. Am. Cyc. 
Having the edge worn away so as to be jagged or irregularly toothed. 
Love; the god of love; -- by earlier writers represented as one of the first and creative gods, by later writers as the son of Aphrodite, equivalent to the Latin god Cupid. 
Jagged or irregularly toothed, as if nibbled out or gnawed. -- E*rose"ly, adv. 
An amorous composition or poem. 
Liable to error; fallible. 
A special business intrusted to a messenger; something to be told or done by one sent somewhere for the purpose; often, a verbal message; a commission; as, the servant was sent on an errand; to do an errand. Also, one's purpose in going anywhere. I have a secret errand to thee, O king. Judg. iii. 19. I will not eat till I have told mine errand. Gen. xxiv. 33. mission. 
Journeying; itinerant; -- formerly applied to judges who went on circuit and to bailiffs at large. Mozley & W. 
One who wanders about. [Obs.] Fuller. 
See Erratum. 
The difference between the approximate result and the true result; -- used particularly in the rule of double position. 
The bitter vetch (Ervum Ervilia). 
A name sometimes given to that dialect of the Celtic which is spoken in the Highlands of Scotland; -- called, by the Highlanders, Gaelic. 
Of or pertaining to the Celtic race in the Highlands of Scotland, or to their language. 
See Arrish. 
Till then or now; heretofore; formerly. [Archaic] 
An insect in the larval state; a caterpillar; a larva. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, a genus of cruciferous Mediterranean herbs (Eruca or Brassica); as, erucic acid, a fatty acid resembling oleic acid, and found in colza oil, mustard oil, etc. 
To cause to burst forth; to eject; as, to erupt lava. Huxley. 
A plant of the genus Eryngium. 
The unlawful permission, by a jailer or other custodian, of a prisoner's departure from custody. 
The side of the ditch next the parapet; -- same as scarp, and opposed to counterscarp. 
To make into, or furnish with, a steep slope, like that of a scrap. Carleton. 
A dry slough, crust, or scab, which separates from the healthy part of the body, as that produced by a burn, or the application of caustics. 
In Ireland, one of the continuous mounds or ridges of gravelly and sandy drift which extend for many miles over the surface of the country. Similar ridges in Scotland are called kames or kams. [Written also eskar and esker.] 
One who eschews. 
To attend with a view to guard and protect; to accompany as safeguard; to give honorable or ceremonious attendance to; -- used esp. with reference to journeys or excursions on land; as, to escort a public functionary, or a lady; to escort a baggage wagon. 
See Scot, a tax. [Obs.] 
To pay the reckoning for; to support; to maintain. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Scout. [Obs.] Hayward. 
See Scrod, a young cod. 
A deed, bond, or other written engagement, delivered to a third person, to be held by him till some act is done or some condition is performed, and then to be by him delivered to the grantee. Blackstone. 
Ease; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One of a peculiar race inhabiting Arctic America and Greenland. In many respects the Eskimos resemble the Mongolian race. [Written also Esquimau.] Eskimo dog (Zoöl.), one of breed of large and powerful dogs used by the Eskimos to draw sledges. It closely resembles the gray wolf, with which it is often crossed. 
To remove; to banish; to withdraw; to avoid; to eloign. [Obs.] From worldly cares he did himself esloin. Spenser. 
A prerogative given to the eldest coparcener to choose first after an inheritance is divide. Mozley & W. 
Conveying impressions from the surface of the body to the spinal cord; -- said of certain nerves. Opposed to exodic. 
A genus of fresh-water fishes, including pike and pickerel. 
Space. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who espies. Harmar. 
Spirit. Esprit de corps (, a French phrase much used by English writers to denote the common spirit pervading the members of a body or association of persons. It implies sympathy, enthusiasm, devotion, and jealous regard for the honor of the body as a whole. 
To look or search narrowly; to look about; to watch; to take notice; to spy. Stand by the way, and espy. Jer. xlviii. 19. 
A spy; a scout. [Obs.] Huloet. 
A composition treating of any particular subject; -- usually shorter and less methodical than a formal, finished treatise; as, an essay on the life and writings of Homer; an essay on fossils, or on commerce. 
One who essays. Addison. 
One of a sect among the Jews in the time of our Savior, remarkable for their strictness and abstinence. 
To excuse for nonappearance in court. "I 'll not essoin thee." Quarles. 
East. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The great classes or orders of a community or state (as the clergy, the nobility, and the commonalty of England) or their representatives who administer the government; as, the estates of the realm (England), which are (1) the lords spiritual, (2) the lords temporal, (3) the commons. 
Stately; dignified. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To form an estimate; to have regard to the value; to consider. [Obs.] We ourselves esteem not of that obedience, or love, or gift, which is of force. Milton. 
Worthy of esteem; estimable. [R.] "Esteemable qualities." Pope. 
An ethereal salt, or compound ether, consisting of an organic radical united with the residue of any oxygen acid, organic or inorganic; thus the natural fats are esters of glycerin and the fatty acids, oleic, etc. 
To impede or bar by estoppel. A party will be estopped by his admissions, where his intent is to influence another, or derive an advantage to himself. Abbott. 
To stray. [Obs.] Daniel. 
Any valuable animal, not wild, found wandering from its owner; a stray. Burrill. 
The inward part of a building; the interior. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An assembly room in dwelling of the Pueblo Indians. L. H. Morgan. 
Commotion. [Obs.] Chapman. 
The blue buck. 
A public storehouse. 
A variant of Eddish. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
To practice etching; to make etchings. 
One who etches. 
See Etern. 
A white waxy solid, C16H33.OH; -- called also cetylic alcohol. See Cetylic alcohol, under Cetylic. 
A gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H6, forming a constituent of ordinary illuminating gas. It is the second member of the paraffin series, and its most important derivatives are common alcohol, aldehyde, ether, and acetic acid. Called also dimethyl. 
Easy. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Noble. [Obs.] 
Ethylene; olefiant gas. 
A medium of great elasticity and extreme tenuity, supposed to pervade all space, the interior of solid bodies not excepted, and to be the medium of transmission of light and heat; hence often called luminiferous ether. 
The science of human duty; the body of rules of duty drawn from this science; a particular system of principles and rules concerting duty, whether true or false; rules of practice in respect to a single class of human actions; as, political or social ethics; medical ethics. The completeness and consistency of its morality is the peculiar praise of the ethics which the Bible has taught. I. Taylor. 
Any compound of ethyl of a binary type; as, potassium ethide. 
Acetylene. 
A heathen; a pagan. [Obs.] No better reported than impure ethnic and lay dogs. Milton. 
The character, sentiment, or disposition of a community or people, considered as a natural endowment; the spirit which actuates manners and customs; also, the characteristic tone or genius of an institution or social organization. 
Ethyl. [Obs.] 
A monatomic, hydrocarbon radical, C2H5 of the paraffin series, forming the essential radical of ethane, and of common alcohol and ether. Ethyl aldehyde. (Chem.) See Aldehyde. 
A kind of small, portable, cooking apparatus for which heat is furnished by a spirit lamp. There should certainly be an etna for getting a hot cup of coffee in a hurry. V. Baker. 
Pertaining to Etna, a volcanic mountain in Sicily. 
See Estoile. 
A giant. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 
To earn. [Obs.] See Addle, to earn. Boucher. 
A study; an exercise; a piece for practice of some special point of technical execution. 
A case for one several small articles; esp., a box in which scissors, tweezers, and other articles of toilet or of daily use are carried. 
See . Shenstone. 
See Etymon. H. F. Talbot. 
Relating to the etymon; as, an etymic word. 
1. An original form; primitive word; root. 
A game at cards, that may be played by two, three, or four persons, the highest card (except when an extra card called the Joker is used) being the knave of the same suit as the trump, and called right bower, the lowest card used being the seven, or frequently, in two-handed euchre, the nine spot. See Bower. 
Having a fine color. Euchroic acid (Chem.), an organic, imide acid, obtained as a colorless crystalline substance, C12H4N2O8 by heating an ammonium salt of mellitic acid. By reduction it is changed to a dark blue substance (euchrone), -- hence its name. 
A Greek geometer of the 3d century 
Applause. [Obs.] Hammond. 
Nobleness of birth. [Obs.] 
The yew. [Obs.] Dryden. 
A speech or writing in commendation of the character or services of a person; as, a fitting eulogy to worth. Eulogies turn into elegies. Spenser. 
Equal law, or a well-adjusted constitution of government. [R.] Mitford. 
A male of the human species castrated; commonly, one of a class of such persons, in Oriental countries, having charge of the women's apartments. Some of them, in former times, gained high official rank. 
The exclamation attributed to Archimedes, who is said to have cried out "Eureka! eureka!" (I have found it! I have found it!), upon suddenly discovering a method of finding out how much the gold of King Hiero's crown had been alloyed. Hence, an expression of triumph concerning a discovery. 
A compact feldspathic rock; felsite. See Felsite. 
The east wind. 
Good or established order or arrangement. [R.] E. Waterhouse. 
To get away from by artifice; to avoid by dexterity, subterfuge, address, or ingenuity; to elude; to escape from cleverly; as, to evade a blow, a pursuer, a punishment; to evade the force of an argument. The heathen had a method, more truly their own, of evading the Christian miracles. Trench. 
Capable of being evaded. [R.] 
Relating to time or duration. [Obs.] 
Liable to vanish or disappear; faint; weak; evanescent; as, evanid color. [Obs.] They are very transistory and evanid. Barrow. 
The branch of medical science which teaches the method of acquiring a good habit of body. [Obs.] 
Evening. See Eve, n. 1. [Poetic.] Shak. 
To be equal. [Obs.] R. Carew. 
To happen. [Obs.] Hewyt. 
Beginning of evening. "At the quiet evenfall." Tennyson. 
With an even, level, or smooth surface; without roughness, elevations, or depression; uniformly; equally; comfortably; impartially; serenely. 
To break forth. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Everlasting. Shak. 
To overthrow or subvert. [Obs.] Glanvill. 
Every person. 
The common newt or eft. In America often applied to several species of aquatic salamanders. [Written also evat.] 
To dispossess by a judicial process; to dispossess by paramount right or claim of such right; to eject; to oust. The law of England would speedily evict them out of their possession. Sir. J. Davies. 
In an evil manner; not well; ill; badly; unhappily; injuriously; unkindly. Shak. It went evil with his house. 1 Chron. vii. 23. The Egyptians evil entreated us, and affected us. Deut. xxvi. 6. 
In an evil manner; not well; ill. [Obs.] "Good deeds evilly bestowed." Shak. 
The act of evincing or proving, or the state of being evinced. 
To shun. [Obs.] Dryton. 
Apt to fly away. [Obs. or R.] Blount. 
To become open, disclosed, or developed; to pass through a process of evolution. Prior. 
To vomit. [Obs.] 
The female of the sheep, and of sheeplike animals. 
A kind of widemouthed pitcher or jug; esp., one used to hold water for the toilet. Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands. Shak. 
The newt. 
To demand or require authoritatively or peremptorily, as a right; to enforce the payment of, or a yielding of; to compel to yield or to furnish; hence, to wrest, as a fee or reward when none is due; -- followed by from or of before the one subjected to exaction; as, to exact tribute, fees, obedience, etc., from or of some one. He said into them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you. Luke. iii. 13. Years of servise past From grateful souls exact reward at last Dryden. My designs Exact me in another place. Massinger. 
To practice exaction. [R.] The anemy shall not exact upon him. Ps. lxxxix. 22. 
To render pure or refined; to intensify or concentrate; as, to exalt the juices of bodies. With chemic art exalts the mineral powers. Pope. 
Examination; inquiry. [R.] "A critical examen of the two pieces." Cowper. 
A viceroy; in Ravenna, the title of the viceroys of the Byzantine emperors; in the Eastern Church, the superior over several monasteries; in the modern Greek Church, a deputy of the patriarch , who visits the clergy, investigates ecclesiastical cases, etc. 
To excavate. [Obs.] Cockeram. 
To go beyond; to proceed beyond the given or supposed limit or measure of; to outgo; to surpass; -- used both in a good and a bad sense; as, one man exceeds another in bulk, stature, weight, power, skill, etc. ; one offender exceeds another in villainy; his rank exceeds yours. Name the time, but let it not Exceed three days. Shak. Observes how much a chintz exceeds mohair. Pope. 
Capable of exceeding or surpassing. [Obs.] Sherwood. 
To surpass others in good qualities, laudable actions, or acquirements; to be distinguished by superiority; as, to excel in mathematics, or classics. Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel. Gen. xlix. 4. Then peers grew proud in horsemanship t' excel. Pope. 
To take exception; to object; -- usually followed by to, sometimes by against; as, to except to a witness or his testimony. Except thou wilt except against my love. Shak. 
With exclusion of; leaving or left out; excepting. God and his Son except, Created thing naught valued he nor . . . shunned. Milton. 
Unless; if it be not so that. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. Gen. xxxii. 26. But yesterday you never opened lip, Except, indeed, to drink. Tennyson. 
To excrete; to throw off through the pores; as, fluids are excerned in perspiration. [R.] Bacon. 
To pick out. [Obs.] Hales. 
Characterized by, or exhibiting, excess; overmuch. Excessive grief [is] the enemy to the living. Shak. 
To cut off. [R.] 
To cut out or off; to separate and remove; as, to excise a tumor. 
To call forth or increase the vital activity of an organism, or any of its parts. 
To boil out; to produce by boiling. [Obs.] Bacon. 
To run out or forth; to extend. [Obs.] Harvey. 
Having no excuse; not admitting of excuse or apology. Whillock. 
The act of excusing; seizure by law. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 
Deserving to be execrated; accursed; damnable; detestable; abominable; as, an execrable wretch. "Execrable pride." Hooker. -- Ex"e*cra*ble*ness, n. -- Ex"e*cra*bly, adv. 
To cut off or out. [Obs.] See Exsect. Harvey. 
A room in a public building, furnished with seats. 
That may be exempted. 
A funeral rite (usually in the plural); the ceremonies of burial; obsequies; funeral procession. But see his exequies fulfilled in Rouen. Shak. 
The act of exerting, or putting into motion or action; the active exercise of any power or faculty; an effort, esp. a laborious or perceptible effort; as, an exertion of strength or power; an exertion of the limbs or of the mind; it is an exertion for him to move, to-day. 
They go out, or retire from the scene; as, exeunt all except Hamlet. See 1st Exit. 
To rise or be given off, as vapor; to pass off, or vanish. Their inspiration exhaled in elegies. Prescott. 
To incite by words or advice; to animate or urge by arguments, as to a good deed or laudable conduct; to address exhortation to; to urge strongly; hence, to advise, warn, or caution. Examples gross as earth exhort me. Shak. Let me exhort you to take care of yourself. J. D. Forbes. 
To deliver exhortation; to use words or arguments to incite to good deeds. With many other words did he testify and exhort. Acts ii. 40. 
Exhortation. [Obs.] Pope. 
To dig out of the ground; to take out of a place of burial; to disinter. Mantell. 
To banish or expel from one's own country or home; to drive away. "Exiled from eternal God." Tennyson. Calling home our exiled friends abroad. Shak. 
Small; slender; thin; fine. [Obs.] "An exile sound." Bacon. 
Pertaining to exile or banishment, esp. to that of the Jews in Babylon. Encyc. Dict. 
Existence. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 
He (or she ) goes out, or retires from view; as, exit Macbeth. 
Destructive; fatal. [Obs.] "Exitial fevers." Harvey. 
A prefix signifying out of, outside; as in exocarp, exogen, exoskeleton. 
The final chorus; the catastrophe. 
Conducting influences from the spinal cord outward; -- said of the motor or efferent nerves. Opposed to esodic. 
Exodus; withdrawal. [Obs.] The time of the Jewish exody. Sir M. Hale. 
A plant belonging to one of the greater part of the vegetable kingdom, and which the plants are characterized by having c wood bark, and pith, the wood forming a layer between the other two, and increasing, if at all, by the animal addition of a new layer to the outside next to the bark. The leaves are commonly netted-veined, and the number of cotyledons is two, or, very rarely, several in a whorl. Cf. Endogen. Gray. 
To loose; to pay. [Obs.] 
A native or inhabitant of Exeter, in England. 
An officer of the Yeomen of the Guard; an Exempt. [Eng.] 
Introduced from a foreign country; not native; extraneous; foreign; as, an exotic plant; an exotic term or word. Nothing was so splendid and exotic as the ambassador. Evelyn. 
Anything of foreign origin; something not of native growth, as a plant, a word, a custom. Plants that are unknown to Italy, and such as the gardeners call exotics. Addison. 
To state in enlarged form; to develop; as, to expand an equation. See Expansion, 5. 
To become widely opened, spread apart, dilated, distended, or enlarged; as, flowers expand in the spring; metals expand by heat; the heart expands with joy. Dryden. 
To wait; to stay. [Obs.] Sandys. 
Expectation. [Obs.] Shak. 
To expedite; to hasten. [Obs.] 
Capable of being expelled or driven out. "Expellable by heat." Kirwan. 
To lay out, apply, or employ in any way; to consume by use; to use up or distribute, either in payment or in donations; to spend; as, they expend money for food or in charity; to expend time labor, and thought; to expend hay in feeding cattle, oil in a lamp, water in mechanical operations. If my death might make this island happy . . . I would expend it with all willingness. Shak. 
A disburser; especially, one of the disbursers of taxes for the repair of sewers. Mozley & W. 
Taught by use, practice, or experience, experienced; having facility of operation or performance from practice; knowing and ready from much practice; clever; skillful; as, an expert surgeon; expert in chess or archery. A valiant and most expert gentleman. Shak. What practice, howsoe'er expert In fitting aptest words to things . . . Hath power to give thee as thou wert Tennison. 
To experience. [Obs.] Die would we daily, once it to expert. Spencer. 
Expiration. He had to leave at the expiry of the term. Lamb. The Parliament . . . now approaching the expiry of its legal term. J. Morley. 
To expound; to explain; also, to expose; to imperil. [Old Eng. & Scotch] Drummond. 
The quality or state of being suitable for exportation. To increase the exportability of native goods. J. P. Peters. 
A formal recital or exposition of facts; exposure, or revelation, of something which some one wished to keep concealed. 
To take by assault; to storm; to overcome; to vanquish; as, to expugn cities; to expugn a person by arguments. 
The removal by operation of a portion of a limb; particularly, the removal of a portion of a bone in the vicinity of a joint; the act or process of cutting out. 
See Ecstasy. [Obs.] 
See Ecstasy, n. & v. t. 
To value, as lands taken by a writ of extent in satisfaction of a debt; to assign by writ of extent. Extended letter (Typog.), a letter, or style of type, having a broader face than is usual for a letter or type of the same height. 
Extended. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To become thinner; to make excuses; to advance palliating considerations. Burke. 
External; outward; not inherent. [Obs.] Shak. 
Away from the mesial plane of the body; lateral. External angles. (Geom.) See under Angle. 
To drop or distill. [Obs.] Johnson. 
The outer membrane of the grains of pollen of flowering plants. 
To extirpate. [Obs.] It is impossible to extirp it quite, friar. Shak . 
One who extols; one who praises. 
To get by the offense of extortion. See Extortion, 2. 
To practice extortion. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Extorted. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Beyond what is due, usual, expected, or necessary; additional; supernumerary; also, extraordinarily good; superior; as, extra work; extra pay. "By working extra hours." H. Spencer. 
Something in addition to what is due, expected, or customary; something in addition to the regular charge or compensation, or for which an additional charge is made; as, at European hotels lights are extras. [Colloq.] 
To discharge through pores or incisions, as moisture or other liquid matter; to give out. Our forests exude turpentine in . . . abundance. Dr. T. Dwight. 
To flow from a body through the pores, or by a natural discharge, as juice. 
To be in high spirits; figuratively, to leap for joy; to rejoice in triumph or exceedingly; to triumph; as, an exulting heart. "An exulting countenance." Bancroft. The dumb shall sing, the lame his crutch forego, And leap exulting like the bounding roe. Pope. 
n. sing. of Exuviæ. 
Formerly, one of the administrative divisions or provinces of the Ottoman Empire; -- now called a vilayet. 
A nesting or unfledged Lird; in falconry, a young hawk from the nest, not able to pr Shak J. H. Walsh 
Unfledged, or newly fledged. [Obs.] Like eyas hawk up mounts unto the skies, His newly budded pinions assay. Spebser. 
A brood; as, an eye of pheasants. 
To fix the eye on; to look on; to view; to observe; particularly, to observe or watch narrowly, or with fixed attention; to hold in view. Eye me, blest Providence, and square my trial To my proportioned strength. Milton. 
To appear; to look. [Obs.] My becomings kill me, when they do not Eye well to you. Shak. 
A bar with an eye at one or both ends. 
A small oval porcelain or glass cup, having a rim curved to fit the orbit of the eye. it is used in the application of liquid remedies to eyes; -- called also eyeglass. 
Heaving (such or so many) eyes; -- used in composition; as sharp-eyed; dull-eyed; sad-eyed; ox-eyed Juno; myriad-eyed. 
Filling or satisfying the eye; visible; remarkable. [Obs.] "Eyeful trophies." Chapman. 
A small, sharp-pointed instrument used in piercing eyelet holes; a stiletto. 
The cover of the eye; that portion of movable skin with which an animal covers or uncovers the eyeball at pleasure. 
Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
One who eyes another. Gayton. 
An island. See Eyot. 
Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An island. See Eyot. 
To ail. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Eiliad. 
A little island in a river or lake. See Ait. [Written also ait, ayt, eey, eyet, and eyght.] Blackstone. 
Air. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A wild cat (Felis eyra) ranging from southern Brazil to Texas. It is reddish yellow and about the size of the domestic cat, but with a more slender body and shorter legs. 
A journey in circuit of certain judges called justices in eyre (or in itinere). 
See Ey, an egg. 
Same as Eisel. [Obs.] Shak. 
Of, pertaining to, or in the manner of, the Roman general, Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus; cautious; dilatory; avoiding a decisive contest. Fabian policy, a policy like that of Fabius Maximus, who, by carefully avoiding decisive contests, foiled Hannibal, harassing his army by marches, countermarches, and ambuscades; a policy of delays and cautions. 
To compose fables; hence, to write or speak fiction ; to write or utter what is not true. "He Fables not." Shak. Vain now the tales which fabling poets tell. Prior. He fables, yet speaks truth. M. Arnold. 
To fiegn; to invent; to devise, and speak of, as true or real; to tell of falsely. The hell thou fablest. Milton. 
A writer of fables; a fabulist; a dealer in untruths or falsehoods. Br. Hall. 
To frame; to built; to construct. [Obs.] "Fabric their mansions." J. Philips. 
A large ornamental letter used, esp. by the early printers, at the commencement of the chapters and other divisions of a book. Brande & C. 
The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having some architectural pretensions. Thus a church is said to have its facade unfinished, though the interior may be in use. 
Ten degrees in extent of a sign of the zodiac. Chaucer. 
To make the surface of (anything) flat or smooth; to dress the face of (a stone, a casting, etc.); esp., in turning, to shape or smooth the flat surface of, as distinguished from the cylindrical surface. 
Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced, two-faced. 
A smooth circumscribed surface; as, the articular facet of a bone. 
To cut facets or small faces upon; as, to facet a diamond. 
Facetious; witty; humorous. [Archaic] "A facete discourse." Jer. Taylor. "How to interpose" with a small, smart remark, sentiment facete, or unctuous anecdote. Prof. Wilson. -- Fa*cete"ly, adv. -- Fa*cete"ness, n. 
See Fascia. 
Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, or nerve. -- Fa"cial*ly, adv. Facial angle (Anat.), the angle, in a skull, included between a straight line (ab, in the illustrations), from the most prominent part of the forehead to the front efge of the upper jaw bone, and another (cd) from this point to the center of the external auditory opening. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic. 
The general aspect or habit of a species, or group of species, esp. with reference to its adaptation to its environment. 
To make easy or less difficult; to free from difficulty or impediment; to lessen the labor of; as, to facilitate the execution of a task. To invite and facilitate that line of proceeding which the times call for. I. Taylor. 
The finishing of any face of a wall with material different from that of which it is chiefly composed, or the coating or material so used. 
One of the divisions or parties of charioteers (distinguished by their colors) in the games of the circus. 
In fact; by the act or fact. De facto. (Law) See De facto. 
One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute; especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transacts business for others in commission; a commission merchant or consignee. He may be a home factor or a foreign factor. He may buy and sell in his own name, and he is intrusted with the possession and control of the goods; and in these respects he differs from a broker. Story. Wharton. My factor sends me word, a merchant's fled That owes me for a hundred tun of wine. Marlowe. 
To resolve (a quantity) into its factors. 
A man's own act and deed; particularly: (a) (Civil Law) Anything stated and made certain. (b) (Testamentary Law) The due execution of a will, including everything necessary to its validity. 
Eloquent. [Archaic] 
A hobby ; freak; whim. -- Fad"dist, n. It is your favorite fad to draw plans. G. Eliot. 
To trifle; to toy. -- v. t. 
Weak; insipid; tasteless; commonplace. [R.] "Passages that are somewhat fade." Jeffrey. His masculine taste gave him a sense of something fade and ludicrous. De Quincey. 
To cause to wither; to deprive of freshness or vigor; to wear away. No winter could his laurels fade. Dryden. 
That has lost freshness, color, or brightness; grown dim. "His faded cheek." Milton. Where the faded moon Made a dim silver twilight. Keats. 
Father. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To fit; to suit; to agree. They shall be made, spite of antipathy, to fadge together. Milton. Well, Sir, how fadges the new design Wycherley. 
A small flat loaf or thick cake; also, a fagot. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Losing freshness, color, brightness, or vigor. -- n. 
An Irish dance; also, the burden of a song. "Fading is a fine jig." [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
A fathom. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Faded. [R.] Shenstone. 
See Fecal. 
Excrement; ordure; also, settlings; sediment after infusion or distillation. [Written also feces.] 
Fairy. [Archaic] Spenser. 
To stammer. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A knot or coarse part in cloth. [Obs.] 
Laborious drudgery; esp., the acting as a drudge for another at an English school. 
A bassoon. See Fagotto. 
To make a fagot of; to bind together in a fagot or bundle; also, to collect promiscuously. Dryden. 
The leaves of an orchid (Angraecum fragrans), of the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius, used (in France) as a substitute for Chinese tea. 
Fault; failure; omission. [Obs.] Bp. Fell. 
A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy. 
With joy; gladly; -- with wold. He would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat. Luke xv. 16. Fain Would I woo her, yet I dare not. Shak. 
To be glad ; to wish or desire. [Obs.] Whoso fair thing does fain to see. Spencer. 
The act of fainting, or the state of one who has fainted; a swoon. [R.] See Fainting, n. The saint, Who propped the Virgin in her faint. Sir W. Scott. 
To cause to faint or become dispirited; to depress; to weaken. [Obs.] It faints me to think what follows. Shak. 
The impure spirit which comes over first and last in the distillation of whisky; -- the former being called the strong faints, and the latter, which is much more abundant, the weak faints. This crude spirit is much impregnated with fusel oil. Ure. 
Feeble; languid. [R.] Dryden. 
Without sudden change of direction or curvature; smooth; fowing; -- said of the figure of a vessel, and of surfaces, water lines, and other lines. 
Clearly; openly; frankly; civilly; honestly; favorably; auspiciously; agreeably. Fair and square, justly; honestly; equitably; impartially. [Colloq.] -- To bid fair. See under Bid. -- To speak fair, to address with courtesy and frankness. [Archaic] 
To make smooth and flowing, as a vessel's lines. 
A catch made by a player on side who makes a prescribed signal that he will not attempt to advance the ball when caught. He must not then be interfered with. 
Unprejudiced; just; judicial; honest. -- Fair"*mind`ed*ness, n. 
The imaginary land or abode of fairies. 
By my faith; in truth; verily. 
One of the circles or windings of a cable or hawser, as it lies in a coil; a single turn or coil. 
To coil (a rope, line, or hawser), by winding alternately in opposite directions, in layers usually of zigzag or figure of eight form,, to prevent twisting when running out. Faking box, a box in which a long rope is faked; used in the life-saving service for a line attached to a shot. 
A trick; a swindle. [Slang] 
One who fakes something, as a thief, a peddler of petty things, a workman who dresses things up, etc. [Slang] 
An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk. [Written also faquir anf fakeer.] 
One of the mandibles of a spider. 
An ancient form of cannon. Chanting falcon. (Zoöl.) See under Chanting. 
The razorbill. [Written also falc, and faik.] [Prov. Eng.] 
Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted to deceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning. -- Fal*la"cious*ly, adv. -Fal*la"cious*ness, n. 
Cavillation; a caviling. [Obs.] Cranmer. 
Dropped; prostrate; degraded; ruined; decreased; dead. Some ruined temple or fallen monument. Rogers. 
A part which acts by falling, as a stamp in a fulling mill, or the device in a spinning machine to arrest motion when a thread breaks. 
Left untilled or unsowed after plowing; uncultivated; as, fallow ground. Fallow chat, Fallow finch (Zoöl.), a small European bird, the wheatear (Saxicola ænanthe). See Wheatear. 
To plow, harrow, and break up, as land, without seeding, for the purpose of destroying weeds and insects, and rendering it mellow; as, it is profitable to fallow cold, strong, clayey land. 
Not in tune. False arch (Arch.), a member having the appearance of an arch, though not of arch construction. -- False attic, an architectural erection above the main cornice, concealing a roof, but not having windows or inclosing rooms. -- False bearing, any bearing which is not directly upon a vertical support; thus, the weight carried by a corbel has a false bearing. -- False cadence, an imperfect or interrupted cadence. -- False conception (Med.), an abnormal conception in which a mole, or misshapen fleshy mass, is produced instead of a properly organized fetus. -- False croup (Med.), a spasmodic affection of the larynx attended with the symptoms of membranous croup, but unassociated with the deposit of a fibrinous membrane. -- False door or window (Arch.), the representation of a door or window, inserted to complete a series of doors or windows or to give symmetry. -- False fire, a combustible carried by vessels of war, chiefly for signaling, but sometimes burned for the purpose of deceiving an enemy; also, a light on shore for decoying a vessel to destruction. -- False galena. See Blende. -- False imprisonment (Law), the arrest and imprisonment of a person without warrant or cause, or contrary to law; or the unlawful detaining of a person in custody. -- False keel (Naut.), the timber below the main keel, used to serve both as a protection and to increase the shio's lateral resistance. -- False key, a picklock. -- False leg. (Zoöl.) See Proleg. -- False membrane (Med.), the fibrinous deposit formed in croup and diphtheria, and resembling in appearance an animal membrane. -- False papers (Naut.), documents carried by a ship giving false representations respecting her cargo, destination, ect., for the purpose of deceiving. -- False passage (Surg.), an unnatural passage leading off from a natural canal, such as the urethra, and produced usually by the unskillful introduction of instruments. -- False personation (Law), the intentional false assumption of the name and personality of another. -- False pretenses (Law), false representations concerning past or present facts and events, for the purpose of defrauding another. -- False rail (Naut.), a thin piece of timber placed on top of the head rail to strengthen it. -- False relation (Mus.), a progression in harmony, in which a certain note in a chord appears in the next chord prefixed by a flat or sharp. -- False return (Law), an untrue return made to a process by the officer to whom it was delivered for execution. -- False ribs (Anat.), the asternal rebs, of which there are five pairs in man. -- False roof (Arch.), the space between the upper ceiling and the roof. Oxford Gloss. -- False token, a false mark or other symbol, used for fraudulent purposes. -- False scorpion (Zoöl.), any arachnid of the genus Chelifer. See Book scorpion. -- False tack (Naut.), a coming up into the wind and filling away again on the same tack. -- False vampire (Zoöl.), the Vampyrus spectrum of South America, formerly erroneously supposed to have blood-sucking habits; -- called also vampire, and ghost vampire. The genuine blood-sucking bats belong to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire. -- False window. (Arch.) See False door, above. -- False wing. (Zoöl.) See Alula, and Bastard wing, under Bastard. -- False works (Civil Engin.), construction works to facilitate the erection of the main work, as scaffolding, bridge centering, etc. 
Not truly; not honestly; falsely. "You play me false." Shak. 
Hypocritical. Shak. 
A deceiver. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To utter with hesitation, or in a broken, trembling, or weak manner. And here he faltered forth his last farewell. Byron. Mde me most happy, faltering "I am thine." Tennyson. 
Hesitation; trembling; feebleness; an uncertain or broken sound; as, a slight falter in her voice. The falter of an idle shepherd's pipe. Lowell. 
A series of strata, of the Middle Tertiary period, of France, abounding in shells, and used by Lyell as the type of his Miocene subdivision. 
Fallow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A curved fold or process of the dura mater or the peritoneum; esp., one of the partitionlike folds of the dura mater which extend into the great fissures of the brain. 
To stammer. [Obs.] Nares. 
A hand [Slang & Obs.] "We clap our fambles." Beau. & Fl. 
Without fame or renown. -- Fame"less*ly, adv. 
A groupe of organisms, either animal or vegetable, related by certain points of resemblance in structure or development, more comprehensive than a genus, because it is usually based on fewer or less pronounced points of likeness. In zoölogy a family is less comprehesive than an order; in botany it is often considered the same thing as an order. Family circle. See under Circle. -- Family man. (a) A man who has a family; esp., one who has a wife and children living with him andd dependent upon him. (b) A man of domestic habits. "The Jews are generally, when married, most exemplary family men." Mayhew. -- Family of curves or surfaces (Geom.), a group of curves or surfaces derived from a single equation. -- In a family way, like one belonging to the family. "Why don't we ask him and his ladies to come over in a family way, and dine with some other plain country gentlefolks" Thackeray. -- In the family way, pregnant. [Colloq.] 
General scarcity of food; dearth; a want of provisions; destitution. "Worn with famine." Milton. There was a famine in the land. Gen. xxvi. 1. Famine fever (Med.), typhus fever. 
State of being famished. 
Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of; distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense, chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition, for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate. Famous for a scolding tongue. Shak. 
A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light. 
Free from the power of love. "In maiden meditation, fancy- free." Shak. 
imp. of Find. Spenser. 
A temple; a place consecrated to religion; a church. [Poet.] Such to this British Isle, her Christian fanes. Wordsworth. 
A weathercock. [Obs.] 
A dry measure in Spain and Spanish America, varying from 1 De Colange. 
The tusk of an animal, by which the prey is seized and held or torn; a long pointed tooth; esp., one of the usually erectile, venomous teeth of serpents. Also, one of the falcers of a spider. Since I am a dog, beware my fangs. Shak. 
Having fangs or tusks; as, a fanged adder. Also used figuratively. 
Something new-fashioned; a foolish innovation; a gewgaw; a trifling ornament. 
To fashion. [Obs.] To control and new fangle the Scripture. Milton. 
A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundred weight. 
A small flag sometimes carried at the head of the baggage of a brigade. [Obs.] 
Same as Fanon. 
Having the nerves or veins arranged in a radiating manner; -- said of certain leaves, and of the winfs of some insects. 
A term applied to various articles, as: (a) A peculiar striped scarf worn by the pope at mass, and by eastern bishops. (b) A maniple. [Written also fannel, phanon, etc.] 
See Phantom. Fantom corn, phantom corn. Grose. 
Fuddled. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Fakir. 
A young pig, or a litter of pigs. 
A going out of the way; a digression. [Obs.] Fuller. 
The standard unit of electrical capacity; the capacity of a condenser whose charge, having an electro-motive force of one volt, is equal to the amount of electricity which, with the same electromotive force, passes through one ohm in one second; the capacity, which, charged with one coulomb, gives an electro-motive force of one volt. 
See Farrand, n. 
Stuffing, or mixture of viands, like that used on dressing a fowl; forcemeat. 
A contagious disease of horses, associated with painful ulcerating enlargements, esp. upon the head and limbs. It is of the same nature as glanders, and is often fatal. Called also farcin, and farcimen. 
Paint used on the face. [Obs.] "Painted with French fard." J. Whitaker. 
To paint; -- said esp. of one's face. [Obs.] Shenstone. 
A bundle or little pack; hence, a burden. [Obs.] Shak. A fardel of never-ending misery and suspense. Marryat. 
To make up in fardels. [Obs.] Fuller. 
p. p. of Fare, v. i. Chaucer. 
Farfetched. [Obs.] York with his farfet policy. Shak. 
Pollen. [R.] Craig. 
Same as Furl. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
An unusual or unexpected thing; a wonder. See Fearly. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Drayton. 
A lease of the imposts on particular goods; as, the sugar farm, the silk farm. Whereas G. H. held the farm of sugars upon a rent of 10,000 marks per annum. State Trials (1196). 
To engage in the business of tilling the soil; to labor as a farmer. 
One who farms; as: (a) One who hires and cultivates a farm; a cultivator of leased ground; a tenant. Smart. (b) One who is devoted to the tillage of the soil; one who cultivates a farm; an agriculturist; a husbandman. (c) One who takes taxes, customs, excise, or other duties, to collect, either paying a fixed annuual rent for the privilege; as, a farmer of the revenues. (d) (Mining) The lord of the field, or one who farms the lot and cope of the crown. Farmer-general Etym: [F. fermier-general], one to whom the right of levying certain taxes, in a particular district, was farmed out, under the former French monarchy, for a given sum paid down. -- Farmers' satin, a light material of cotton and worsted, used for coat linings. McElrath. -- The king's farmer (O. Eng. Law), one to whom the collection of a royal revenue was farmed out. Burrill. 
A gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players play against the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order in which the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack. Faro bank, the capital which the proprietor of a farotable ventures in the game; also, the place where a game of faro is played. Hoyle. 
A little of pigs. Shak. 
To bring forth (young); -- said only of swine. Tusser. 
Not producing young in a given season or year; -- said only of cows. 
A farrow. [Obs.] Perry. 
An addition to, or a paraphrase of, some part of the Latin service in the vernacular; -- common in English before the Reformation. 
A bundle of rods, having among them an ax with the blade projecting, borne before the Roman magistrates as a badge of their authority. 
A wire basket on the end of a rod to carry glass bottles, etc., to the annealing furnace; also, an iron rod to be thrust into the mouths of bottles, and used for the same purpose; -- calles also pontee and punty. 
A flat member of an order or building, like a flat band or broad fillet; especially, one of the three bands which make up the architrave, in the Ionic order. See Illust. of Column. 
To vex; to tease; to trouble. [Scot.] 
Vexation; anxiety; care. [Scot.] Without further fash on my part. De Quincey. 
That which fastens or holds; especially, (Naut.) a mooring rope, hawser, or chain; -- called, according to its position, a bow, head, quarter, breast, or stern fast; also, a post on a pier around which hawsers are passed in mooring. 
To fix one's self; to take firm hold; to clinch; to cling. A horse leech will hardly fasten on a fish. Sir T. Browne. 
One who abstains from food. 
Fastidiousness; squeamishness. [Obs.] Swift. 
Firmly; surely. 
Of a character which enables the compositor to make large wages; -- said of matter containing blank, cuts, or many leads, etc.; as, a fat take; a fat page. Fat lute, a mixture of pipe clay and oil for filling joints. 
An oily liquid or greasy substance making up the main bulk of the adipose tissue of animals, and widely distributed in the seeds of plants. See Adipose tissue, under Adipose. 
To make fat; to fatten; to make plump and fleshy with abundant food; as, to fat fowls or sheep. We fat all creatures else to fat us. Shak. 
To grow fat, plump, and fleshy. An old ox fats as well, and is as good, as a young one. Mortimer. 
The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that they take place by inevitable necessity. 
The three goddesses, Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, sometimes called the Destinies, or Parcæwho were supposed to determine the course of human life. They are represented, one as holding the distaff, a second as spinning, and the third as cutting off the thread. 
Having the power of serving or accomplishing fate. "The fateful steel." J. Barlow. 
The state of being a father; the character or authority of a father; paternity. 
Capable of being fathomed. 
Grossly; greasily. 
One who fattens. [R.] See Fattener. Arbuthnit. 
To grow fat or corpulent; to grow plump, thick, or fleshy; to be pampered. And villains fatten with the brave man's labor. Otway. 
Containing fat, or having the qualities of fat; greasy; gross; as, a fatty substance. Fatty acid (Chem.), any one of the paraffin series of monocarbonic acids, as formic acid, acetic, etc.; -- so called because the higher members, as stearic and palmitic acids, occur in the natural fats, and are themselves fatlike substances. -- Fatty clays. See under Clay. -- Fatty degeneration (Med.), a diseased condition, in which the oil globules, naturally present in certain organs, are so multiplied as gradually to destroy and replace the efficient parts of these organs. -- Fatty heart, Fatty liver, etc. (Med.), a heart, liver, etc., which have been the subjects of fatty degeneration or infiltration. -- Fatty infiltration (Med.), a condition in which there is an excessive accumulation of fat in an organ, without destruction of any essential parts of the latter. -- Fatty tumor (Med.), a tumor consisting of fatty or adipose tissue; lipoma. 
Pertaining to the fauces, or opening of the throat; faucial; esp., (Phon.) produced in the fauces, as certain deep guttural sounds found in the Semitic and some other languages. Ayin is the most difficult of the faucals. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 
The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situated between the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called also the isthmus of the fauces. On either side of the passage two membranous folds, called the pillars of the fauces, inclose the tonsils. 
See Falchion. [Obs.] 
An exclamation of contempt, disgust, or abhorrence. 
The arch over the dam of a blast furnace; the tymp arch. 
A fall or falling band. [Obs.] These laces, ribbons, and these faules. Herrick. 
A lost scent; act of losing the scent. Ceasing their clamorous cry till they have singled, With much ado, the cold fault cleary out. Shak. 
To interrupt the continuity of (rock strata) by displacement along a plane of fracture; -- chiefly used in the p.p.; as, the coal beds are badly faulted. 
To err; to blunder, to commit a fault; to do wrong. [Obs.] If after Samuel's death the people had asked of God a king, they had not faulted. Latimer. 
A god of fields and shipherds, diddering little from the satyr. The fauns are usually represented as half goat and half man. Satyr or Faun, or Sylvan. Milton. 
The animals of any given area or epoch; as, the fauna of America; fossil fauna; recent fauna. 
Relating to fauna. 
See Faun. 
A young eel. [Prov. Eng.] 
A favorer; a patron; one who gives countenance or support; an abettor. [Obs.] The king and the fautors of his proceedings. Latimer. 
See Fauces. 
See Favus, n., 2. Fairholt. 
Yellow; fal [Obs.] Wright. 
A horse of a favel or dun color. To curry favel. See To curry favor, under Favor, n. 
Flattery; cajolery; deceit. [Obs.] Skeat. 
Partiality; bias. Bouvier. 
In a favored or a favorable manner; favorably. [Obs.] Deut. xvii. 1. Arscham. 
Honeycombed. See Faveolate. 
A disease of the scalp, produced by a vegetable parasite. 
Fain; glad; delighted. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A young deer; a buck or doe of the first year. See Buck. 
Of the color of a fawn; fawn-colored. 
To bring forth a fawn. 
To court favor by low cringing, frisking, etc., as a dog; to flatter meanly; -- often followed by on or upon. You showed your teeth like apes, and fawned like hounds. Shak. Thou with trembling fear, Or like a fawning parasite, obeyest. Milton. Courtiers who fawn on a master while they betray him. Macaulay. 
A servile cringe or bow; mean flattery; sycophancy. Shak. 
One who fawns; a sycophant. 
Hairy. [Obs.] amden. 
A fairy; an elf. "Yellow-skirted fays." Milton. 
Faith; as, by my fay. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To fit; to join; to unite closely, as two pieces of wood, so as to make the surface fit together. 
To lie close together; to fit; to fadge; -- often with in, into, with, or together. Faying surface, that surface of an object which comes with another object to which it is fastened; -- said of plates, angle irons, etc., that are riveted together in shipwork. 
See Feeze. 
To beat or whip; to drive. [Obs.] Otway. 
Faithful; loyal. [Obs.] Wright. 
A variant of Fere, a mate, a companion. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To be in apprehension of evil; to be afraid; to feel anxiety on account of some expected evil. I exceedingly fear and quake. Heb. xii. 21. 
One who fars. Sir P. Sidney. 
Festive; festal; joyful; sumptuous; luxurious. "Feastful days." Milton. -- Feast"ful*ly, adv. 
To form; to fashion. [Obs.] To the more mature, A glass that feated them. Shak. 
Dexterous in movements or service; skillful; neat; nice; pretty. [Archaic] Never master had a page . . . so feat. Shak. And look how well my garments sit upon me --Much feater than before. Shak. 
Neatly; dexterously; nimbly. [Archaic] Foot featly here and there. Shak. 
To untwist; to unravel, as the end of a rope. Johnson. 
To beat; to chastise; also, to humble; to harass; to worry. [Obs.] insworth. 
A state of anxious or fretful excitement; worry; vexation. [Obs.] 
relating to, or containing, dregs, feces, or ordeure; fæcal. 
To fetch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
dregs; sediment; excrement. See FÆces. 
Pertaining to heralds, declarations of war, and treaties of peace; as, fecial law. Kent. 
Spiritless; weak; worthless. [Scot] 
A corruption of the word faith. Shak. 
Any pulverulent matter obtained from plants by simply breaking down the texture, washing with water, and subsidence. Especially: (a) The nutritious part of wheat; starch or farina; -- called also amylaceous fecula. (b) The green matter of plants; chlorophyll. 
Fruitful in children; prolific. Graunt. 
imp. & p. p. of Feed. 
A feodary. [Obs.] Shak. 
Turpitude; vileness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
A right to the use of a superior's land, as a stipend for services to be performed; also, the land so held; a fief. 
To reward for services performed, or to be performed; to recompense; to hire or keep in hire; hence, to bribe. The patient . . . fees the doctor. Dryden. There's not a one of them but in his house I keep a servant feed. Shak. 
To make feble; to enfeeble. [Obs.] Shall that victorious hand be feebled here Shak. 
In a feeble manner. The restored church . . . contended feebly, and with half a heart. Macaulay. 
An auxiliary part of a machine which supplies or leads along the material operated upon. 
See Fijian. 
One of the sense organs or certain animals (as insects), which are used in testing objects by touch and in searching for food; an antenna; a palp. Insects . . . perpetually feeling and searching before them with their feelers or antennæ. Derham. 
A consort, husband or wife; a companion; a fere. [Obs.] 
the short run before a leap. [Obs.] Nares. 
See Foot. 
Fact; performance. [Obs.] 
Fretful excitement. [Obs.] See Feaze. 
See Vehmic. 
Not real or genuine; pretended; counterfeit; insincere; false. "A feigned friend." Shak. Give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips. Ps. xvii. 1. -- Feign"ed*ly, adv. -- Feign"ed*ness, n. Her treacherous sister Judah hath not turned unto me with her whole heart, but feignedly. Jer. iii. 10. Feigned issue (Law), an issue produced in a pretended action between two parties for the purpose of trying before a jury a question of fact which it becomes necessary to settle in the progress of a cause. Burill. Bouvier. 
To feign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Feigned; counterfeit. [Obs.] Dressed up into any feint appearance of it. Locke. 
To make a feint, or mock attack. 
See Feeze, v. t. 
Many. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidæ; as, the feline race; feline voracity. 
A genus of carnivorous mammals, including the domestic cat, the lion, tiger, panther, and similar animals. 
imp. of Fall. 
Gall; anger; melancholy. [Obs.] Untroubled of vile fear or bitter fell. Spenser. 
A skin or hide of a beast with the wool or hair on; a pelt; -- used chiefly in composition, as woolfell. We are still handling our ewes, and their fells, you know, are greasy. Shak. 
To cause to fall; to prostrate; to bring down or to the ground; to cut down. Stand, or I'll fell thee down. Shak. 
The finer portions of ore which go through the meshes, when the ore is sorted by sifting. 
To sew or hem; -- said of seams. 
A form of seam joining two pieces of cloth, the edges being folded together and the stitches taken through both thicknesses. 
A peasant or cultivator of the soil among the Egyptians, Syrians, etc. W. M. Thomson. 
One who, or that which, fells, knocks or cuts down; a machine for felling trees. 
An appliance to a sewing machine for felling a seam. 
See Felly. 
Variant of Felon. [Obs.] Those two were foes the fellonest on ground. Spenser. 
To suit with; to pair with; to match. [Obs.] Shak. 
, adv. In a fell or cruel manner; fiercely; barbarously; savagely. Spenser. 
The exterior wooden rim, or a segment of the rim, of a wheel, supported by the spokes. [Written also felloe.] Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel. Shak. 
A person who has committed a felony. 
Characteristic of a felon; malignant; fierce; malicious; cruel; traitorous; disloyal. Vain shows of love to vail his felon hate. Pope. 
An act on the part of the vassal which cost him his fee by forfeiture. Burrill. 
imp. & p. p. or a. from Feel. 
To clot or mat together like felt. His feltered locks that on his bosom fell. Fairfax. 
See Felt, n. [Obs.] 
A plant which produces only that kind of reproductive organs which are capable of developing into fruit after impregnation or fertilization; a pistillate plant. 
Having pistils and no stamens; pistillate; or, in cryptogamous plants, capable of receiving fertilization. 
A woman. Burrill. Feme covert (Law), a married woman. See Covert, a., 3. -- Feme sole (Law), a single or unmarried woman; a woman who has never been married, or who has been divorced, or whose husband is dead. -- Feme sole trader or merchant (Eng. Law), a married woman, by the custom of London, engages in business on her own account, inpendently of her husband. 
A woman. See Feme, n. Femme de chambre. Etym: [F.] A lady's maid; a chambermaid. 
Low land overflowed, or covered wholly or partially with water, but producing sedge, coarse grasses, or other aquatic plants; boggy land; moor; marsh. 'Mid reedy fens wide spread. Wordsworth. 
A projection on the bolt, which passes through the tumbler gates in locking and unlocking. 
Affording defense; defensive. [Obs.] Congreve. 
One who fences; one who teaches or practices the art of fencing with sword or foil. As blunt as the fencer's foils. Shak. 
A fiend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To keep off; to prevent from entering or hitting; to ward off; to shut out; -- often with off; as, to fend off blows. With fern beneath to fend the bitter cold. Dryden. To fend off a boat or vessel (Naut.), to prevent its running against anything with too much violence. 
To act on the defensive, or in opposition; to resist; to parry; to shift off. The dexterous management of terms, and being able to fend . . . with them, passes for a great part of learning. Locke. 
One who or that which defends or protects by warding off harm; as: (a) A screen to prevent coals or sparks of an open fire from escaping to the floor. (b) Anything serving as a cushion to lessen the shock when a vessel comes in contact with another vessel or a wharf. (c) A screen to protect a carriage from mud thrown off the wheels: also, a splashboard. (d) Anything set up to protect an exposed angle, as of a house, from damage by carriage wheels. 
A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly of Irishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule in ireland. 
Pertaining to Fenians or to Fenianism. 
The refuse whale blubber, used as a manure, and in the manufacture of Prussian blue. Ure. 
A small, African, foxlike animal (Vulpes zerda) of a pale fawn color, remarkable for the large size of its ears. 
A perennial plant of the genus Fæniculum (F.vulgare), having very finely divided leaves. It is cultivated in gardens for the agreeable aromatic flavor of its seeds. Smell of sweetest fennel. Milton. A sprig of fennel was in fact the theological smelling bottle of the tender sex. S. G. Goodrich. Azorean, or Sweet, fennel, (Fæniculum dulce). It is a smaller and stouter plant than the common fennel, and is used as a pot herb. -- Dog's fennel (Anthemis Cotula), a foul-smelling European weed; -- called also mayweed. -- Fennel flower (Bot.), an herb (Nigella) of the Buttercup family, having leaves finely divided, like those of the fennel. N.Damascena is common in gardens. N.sativa furnishes the fennel seed, used as a condiment, etc., in India. These seeds are the "fitches" mentioned in Isaiah (xxviii. 25). -- Fennel water (Med.), the distilled water of fennel seed. It is stimulant and carminative. -- Giant fennel (Ferula communis), has stems full of pith, which, it is said, were used to carry fire, first, by Prometheus. -- Hog's fennel, a European plant (Peucedanum officinale) looking something like fennel. 
Pertaining to, or inhabiting, a fen; abounding in fens; swampy; boggy. "Fenny snake." Shak. 
A feud. See 2d Feud. Blackstone. 
Feudal. See Feudal. 
, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Feoffed; p. pr. & vb. n.. Feoffing.] Etym: [OE. feffen, OF. feffer, fieffer, F. fieffer, fr. fief fief; cf. LL. feoffare, fefare. See Fief.] (Law) 
A fief. See Fief. 
Far. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A group of mammals which formerly included the Carnivora, Insectivora, Marsupialia, and lemurs, but is now often restricted to the Carnivora. 
Wild; untamed; ferine; not domesticated; -- said of beasts, birds, and plants. feral child, not raised by humans 
Funereal; deadly; fatal; dangerous. [R.] "Feral accidents." Burton. 
imp. of Fare. Chaucer. 
A mate or companion; -- often used of a wife. [Obs.] [Written also fear and feere.] Chaucer. And Cambel took Cambrina to his fere. Spenser. In fere, together; in company. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Fierce. [Obs.] 
Fire. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Fear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To fear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A week day, esp. a day which is neither a festival nor a fast. Shipley. 
Same as Feria. 
The act of keeping holiday; cessation from work. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
A holiday. [Obs.] Bullokar. 
, compar. of Fere, fierce. [Obs.] Rhenus ferier than the cataract. Marston. 
Wild; untamed; savage; as, lions, tigers, wolves, and bears are ferine beasts. Sir M. Hale. -- n. 
Wildness; savageness; fierceness. [Obs.] Woodward. 
Singular; wonderful; extraordinary. [Obs.] -- n. 
Long ago. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Ancient; old. [Obs.] "Pilgrimages to . . . ferne halwes." [saints]. Chaucer. 
An order of cryptogamous plants, the Filices, which have their fructification on the back of the fronds or leaves. They are usually found in humid soil, sometimes grow epiphytically on trees, and in tropical climates often attain a gigantic size. 
Abounding in ferns. 
Wild; savage. [R.] Arthur Wilson. 
An animal of the Weasel family (Mustela or Putorius furo), about fourteen inches in length, of a pale yellow or white color, with red eyes. It is a native of Africa, but has been domesticated in Europe. Ferrets are used to drive rabbits and rats out of their holes. 
To drive or hunt out of a lurking place, as a ferret does the cony; to search out by patient and sagacious efforts; -- often used with out; as, to ferret out a secret. Master Fer! I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret him. Shak. 
A kind of narrow tape, usually made of woolen; sometimes of cotton or silk; -- called also ferreting. 
The iron used for trying the melted glass to see if is fit to work, and for shaping the rings at the mouths of bottles. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing iron. Specifically (Chem.), denoting those compounds in which iron has a higher valence than in the ferrous compounds; as, ferric oxide; ferric acid. Ferric acid (Chem.), an acid, H2FeO4, which is not known in the free state, but forms definite salts, analogous to the chromates and sulphates. -- Ferric oxide (Chem.), sesquioxide of iron, Fe2O3; hematite. See Hematite. 
To carry or transport over a river, strait, or other narrow water, in a boat. 
To pass over water in a boat or by a ferry. They ferry over this Lethean sound Both to and fro. Milton. 
A vessel for conveying passengers, merchandise, etc., across streams and other narrow waters. 
Fierce. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Fourth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Pertaining to reeds and canes; having a stalk like a reed; as, ferulaceous plants. 
A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on the hand, in punishment. 
To punish with a ferule. 
Pertaining to, or resembling, the Fescennines. -- n. 
A grass of the genus Festuca. Fescue grass (Bot.), a genus of grasses (Festuca) containing several species of importance in agriculture. Festuca ovina is sheep's fescue; F. elatior is meadow fescue. 
To use a fescue, or teach with a fescue. Milton. 
See Phasel. [Obs.] May (Georgics). 
The fist. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to a holiday or a feast; joyous; festive. You bless with choicer wine the festal day. Francis. 
To cause to fester or rankle. For which I burnt in inward, swelt'ring hate, And fstered ranking malice in my breast. Marston. 
A festering. [R.] Chalmers. 
A straw; a fescue. [Obs.] Holland. 
A piece. [Obs.] Dryton. 
To fetch. [Obs.] And from the other fifty soon the prisoner fet. Spenser. 
Fetched. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Pertaining to, or connected with, a fetus; as, fetal circulation; fetal membranes. 
To bring one's self; to make headway; to veer; as, to fetch about; to fetch to windward. Totten. To fetch away (Naut.), to break loose; to roll slide to leeward. -- To fetch and carry, to serve obsequiously, like a trained spaniel. 
One wo fetches or brings. 
A feat. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Feet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A festival. Fête champêtre ( Etym: [F.], a festival or entertainment in the open air; a rural festival. 
To feast; to honor with a festival. 
Having an offensive smell; stinking. Most putrefactions . . . smell either fetid or moldy. Bacon. 
Neat; pretty; well made; graceful. [Obs.] Full fetis was her cloak, as I was ware. Chaucer. 
A strong, offensive smell; stench; fetidness. Arbuthnot. 
To fetch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
1. To put fetters upon; to shakle or confine the feet of with a chain; to bind. My heels are fettered, but my fist is free. Milton. 
1. To repair; to prepare; to put in order. [Prov. Eng.] Carlyle. 
To make preparations; to put things in order; to do trifling business. [Prov. Eng.] Bp. Hall. 
The act of fettling. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. In fine fettle, in good spirits. 
The young or embryo of an animal in the womb, or in the egg; often restricted to the later stages in the development of viviparous and oviparous animals, embryo being applied to the earlier stages. [Written also foetus.] 
A written decision of a Turkish mufti on some point of law. Whitworth. 
A free and gratuitous right to lands made to one for service to be performed by him; a tenure where the vassal, in place of military services, makes a return in grain or in money. Burrill. 
One who holds a feu. Sir W. Scott. 
A stipendiary estate in land, held of superior, by service; the right which a vassal or tenant had to the lands or other immovable thing of his lord, to use the same and take the profists thereof hereditarily, rendering to his superior such duties and services as belong to military tenure, etc., the property of the soil always remaining in the lord or superior; a fief; a fee. 
The feudal system; a system by which the holding of estates in land is made dependent upon an obligation to render military service to the kind or feudal superior; feudal principles and usages. 
To set close; to fix in rest, as a spear. Spenser. 
A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat, acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of the functions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite. Many diseases, of which fever is the most prominent symptom, are denominated fevers; as, typhoid fever; yellow fever. 
To put into a fever; to affect with fever; as, a fevered lip. [R.] The white hand of a lady fever thee. Shak. 
Feverish. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Not many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicating a small portion of units or individuals constituing a whole; often, by ellipsis of a noun, a few people. "Are not my days few" Job x. 20. Few know and fewer care. Proverb. 
Fuel. [Obs.] Hooker. 
See Fumet. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Fated; doomed. [Old Eng. & Scot.] 
Faith. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To cleanse; to clean out. [Obs.] Tusser. 
To feign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A fair or market. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A felt or cloth cap, usually red and having a tassel, -- a variety of the tarboosh. See Tarboosh. B. Taylor. 
A kind of French hackney coach. 
To betroth; to affiance. [Obs.] Harmar. 
A betrothed man. 
The dung of the fox, wolf, boar, or badger. 
One in whom the property of an estate is vested, subject to the estate of a life renter. I am fiar of the lands; she a life renter. Sir W. Scott. 
A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musical performance, or of any pretentious undertaking. 
Commission; fiat; order; decree. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A falsehood; a lie; -- used euphemistically. They are very serious; they don't tell fibs. H. James. 
To speak falsely. [Colloq.] 
To tell a fib to. [R.] De Quincey. 
One who tells fibs. 
A small fiber; the branch of a fiber; a very slender thread; a fibrilla. Cheyne. 
The state of acquiring or having an excess of fibrin. 
The outer and usually the smaller of the two bones of the leg, or hind limb, below the knee. 
A small dog; -- written also fise, fyce, fiste, etc. [Southern U.S.] 
See FitchÉ. 
A light cape, usually of lace, worn by women, to cover the neck and throat, and extending to the shoulders. 
Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeable mind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as, Fortune's fickle wheel. Shak. They know how fickle common lovers are. Dryden. 
In a fickle manner. [Obs.] Pepys. 
A fig; an insignificant trifle, no more than the snap of one's thumb; a sign of contempt made by the fingers, expressing. A fig for you. Steal! foh, a fico for the phrase. Shak. 
An artist who models or forms statues and reliefs in any plastic material. [R.] Elmes. 
A genus of trees or shrubs, one species of which (F. Carica) produces the figs of commerce; the fig tree. 
A square bar of wood or iron, used to support the topmast, being passed through a hole or mortise at its heel, and resting on the trestle trees. 
A stringed instrument of music played with a bow; a violin; a kit. 
To play (a tune) on a fiddle. 
Faith personified as a goddess; the goddess of faith. 
See Fidget. [R.] Swift. 
To move uneasily one way and the other; to move irregularly, or by fits and starts. Moore. 
A general nervous restlessness, manifested by incessant changes of position; dysphoria. Dunglison. 
A genus of small beetles, of which one species (the grapevine Fidia, F. longipes) is very injurious to vines in America. 
An exclamation denoting contempt or dislike. See Fy. Fuller. 
An estate held of a superior on condition of military service; a fee; a feud. See under Benefice, n., 2. 
The whole surface of an escutcheon; also, so much of it is shown unconcealed by the different bearings upon it. See Illust. of Fess, where the field is represented as gules (red), while the fess is argent (silver). 
To stand out in the field, ready to catch, stop, or throw the ball. 
To catch, stop, throw, etc. (the ball), as a fielder. 
Open, like a field. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
An implacable or malicious foe; one who is diabolically wicked or cruel; an infernal being; -- applied specifically to the devil or a demon. Into this wild abyss the wary fiend Stood on the brink of Hell and looked a while. Milton. O woman! woman! when to ill thy mind Is bent, all hell contains no fouler fiend. Pope. 
A judicial writ that lies for one who has recovered in debt or damages, commanding the sheriff that he cause to be made of the goods, chattels, or real estate of the defendant, the sum claimed. Blackstone. Cowell. 
Among Spanish, a religious festival; a saint's day or holiday; also, a holiday or festivity. 
A small shrill pipe, resembling the piccolo flute, used chiefly to accompany the drum in military music. Fife major (Mil.), a noncommissioned officer who superintends the fifers of a regiment. -- Fife rail. (Naut.) (a) A rail about the mast, at the deck, to hold belaying pins, etc. (b) A railing around the break of a poop deck. 
To play on a fife. 
One who plays on a fife. 
The interval of three tones and a semitone, embracing five diatonic degrees of the scale; the dominant of any key. 
Five times ten; as, fifty men. 
A small fruit tree (Ficus Carica) with large leaves, known from the remotest antiquity. It was probably native from Syria westward to the Canary Islands. 
Figure; dress; array. [Colloq.] Were they all in full fig, the females with feathers on their heads, the males with chapeaux bras Prof. Wilson. 
An adroi 
A frolic; a vagary; a whim. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
Fidgety; restless. [Obs.] Such a little figent thing. Beau. & Fl. 
A juggler's trick; conjuring. [Obs.] The devil is the author of wicked figgum. B. Jonson. 
One who fights; a combatant; a warrior. Shak. 
A diagram or drawing; made to represent a magnitude or the relation of two or more magnitudes; a surface or space inclosed on all sides; -- called superficial when inclosed by lines, and solid when inclosed by surface; any arrangement made up of points, lines, angles, surfaces, etc. 
The figure, statue, or bust, on the prow of a ship. 
Of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants. -- n. 
See Fyke. 
imp. of Fall, v. i. Fell. Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to a thread or line; characterized by threads stretched across the field of view; as, a filar microscope; a filar micrometer. 
To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of little value); to pilfer. Fain would they filch that little food away. Dryden. But he that filches from me my good name, Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed. Shak. 
To put upon the files or among the records of a court; to note on (a paper) the fact date of its reception in court. To file a paper, on the part of a party, is to place it in the official custody of the clerk. To file, on the part of the clerk, is to indorse upon the paper the date of its reception, and retain it in his office, subject to inspection by whomsoever it may concern. Burrill. 
To march in a file or line, as soldiers, not abreast, but one after another; -- generally with off. To file with, to follow closely, as one soldier after another in file; to keep pace. My endeavors Have ever come too short of my desires, Yet filed with my abilities. Shak. 
To make f [Obs.] All his hairy breast with blood was filed.Spenser. For Banquo's issue have I filed mind.Shak. 
One who works with a file. 
In a filial manner. 
A fragment or particle rubbed off by the act of filing; as, iron filings. 
One of the thills or shafts of a carriage. Mortimer. Fill horse, a thill horse. Shak. 
To make an embankment in, or raise the level of (a low place), with earth or gravel. To fill in, to insert; as, he filled in the figures. -- To fill out, to extend or enlarge to the desired limit; to make complete; as, to fill out a bill. -- To fill up, to make quite full; to fill to the brim or entirely; to occupy completely; to complete. "The bliss that fills up all the mind." Pope. "And fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ." Col. i. 24. 
A full supply, as much as supplies want; as much as gives complete satisfaction. "Ye shall eat your fill." Lev. xxv. 19. I'll bear thee hence, where I may weep my fill. Shak. 
One who, or that which, fills; something used for filling. 'T is mere filer, to stop a vacancy in the hexameter. Dryden. They have six diggers to four fillers, so as to keep the fillers always at work. Mortimer. 
A thill horse. [Prov. Eng.] 
A piece of lean meat without bone; sometimes, a long strip rolled together and tied. 
To bind, furnish, or adorn with a fillet. 
See Philopena. 
A female foal or colt; a young mare. Cf. Colt, Foal. Neighing in likeness of a filly foal. Shak. 
To cover with a thin skin or pellicle. It will but skin and film the ulcerous place. Shak. 
Composed of film or films. Whose filmy cord should bind the struggling fly. Dryden. 
Terminating in a threadlike process. 
Son; -- sometimes used after a French proper name to distinguish a son from his father, as, Alexandre Dumas, fils. 
Any porous substance, as cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal, through which water or other liquid may passed to cleanse it from the solid or impure matter held in suspension; a chamber or device containing such substance; a strainer; also, a similar device for purifying air. Filter bed, a pond, the bottom of which is a filter composed of sand gravel. -- Filter gallery, an underground gallery or tunnel, alongside of a stream, to collect the water that filters through the intervening sand and gravel; -- called also infiltration gallery. 
To purify or defecate, as water or other liquid, by causing it to pass through a filter. Filtering paper, or Filter paper, a porous unsized paper, for filtering. 
To pass through a filter; to percolate. 
Same as Philter. 
In a filthy manner; foully. 
Defiled with filth, whether material or moral; nasty; dirty; polluted; foul; impure; obscene. "In the filthy-mantled pool." Shak. He which is filthy let him be filthy still. Rev. xxii. 11. 
To carve or cut up, as a chub. 
End; conclusion; object. [Obs.] "She knew eke the fin of his intent." Chaucer. 
An organ of a fish, consisting of a membrane supported by rays, or little bony or cartilaginous ossicles, and serving to balance and propel it in the water. 
Close; termination; as: (a) (Mus.) The last movement of a symphony, sonata, concerto, or any instrumental composition. (b) The last composition performed in any act of an opera. (c) The closing part, piece, or scene in any public performance or exhibition. 
See Finery. 
A small singing bird of many genera and species, belonging to the family Fringillidæ. 
To determine an issue of fact, and to declare such a determination to a court; as, the jury find for the plaintiff. Burrill. 
Anything found; a discovery of anything valuable; especially, a deposit, discovered by archæologists, of objects of prehistoric or unknown origin. 
One who, or that which, finds; specifically (Astron.), a small telescope of low power and large field of view, attached to a larger telescope, for the purpose of finding an object more readily. 
Full; heavy; firm; solid; substemtial. [Obs.] A cold May and a windy Makes the barn fat amd findy. Old Prover 
To impose a pecuniary penalty upon for an offense or breach of law; to set a fine on by judgment of a court; to punish by fine; to mulct; as, the trespassers were fined ten dollars. 
To pay a fine. See Fine, n., 3 (b). [R.] Men fined for the king's good will; or that he would remit his anger; women fined for leave to marry. Hallam. 
To finish; to cease; or to cause to cease. [Obs.] 
To run in dept by getting goods made up in a way unsuitable for the use of others, and then threatening not to take them except on credit. [R.] Goldsmith. 
To veneer. 
In a fine or finished manner. 
One who fines or purifies. 
A charcoal hearth or furnace for the conversion of cast iron into wrought iron, or into iron suitable for puddling. 
Moldiness. [R.] 
To use the fingers in playing on an instrument. Busby. 
The knot or bunch of foliage, or foliated ornament, that forms the upper extremity of a pinnacle in Gothic architecture; sometimes, the pinnacle itself. 
To make fine; to dress finically. [Obs.] Hath so pared and finified them [his feet.] B. Jonson. 
An end; conclusion. It is often placed at the end of a book. 
The joiner work and other finer work required for the completion of a building, especially of the interior. See Inside finish, and Outside finish. 
Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity; bounded; -- opposed to infinite; as, finite number; finite existence; a finite being; a finite mind; finite duration. 
In the Levant, a small coffee cup without a handle, such as is held in a cup or stand called a zarf. 
A little fin; one of the parts of a divided fin. 
A native of Finland; one of the FinnFinns. 
Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin. Mortimer. 
A finback whale. 
Of or pertaining to the Finns. 
Having, or abounding in, fins, as fishes; pertaining to fishes. 
Second best wool from Merino sheep. Gardner. 
3d pers. sing. pr. of Find, for findeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A narrow inlet of the sea, penetrating between high banks or rocks, as on the coasts of Norway and Alaska. [Written also fjord.] 
A species of creeping bent grass (Agrostis alba); -- called also fiorin grass. 
A stopper, as in a wind instrument of music. [Obs.] Bacon. 
A genus (Abies) of coniferous trees, often of large size and elegant shape, some of them valued for their timber and others for their resin. The species are distinguished as the balsam fir, the silver fir, the red fir, etc. The Scoth fir is a Pinus. 
To cauterize. To fire up, to light up the fires of, as of an engine. 
A gun, pistol, or any weapon from a shot is discharged by the force of an explosive substance, as gunpowder. 
One who fires or sets fire to anything; an incendiary. [R.] R. Carew. 
In the breech mechanism of a firearm, the pin which strikes the head of the cartridge and explodes it. 
To beat; to strike; to chastise. [Obs.] I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret him. Shak. 
To fly out; to turn out; to go off. [Obs.] A wench is a rare bait, with which a man No sooner's taken but he straight firks mad.B.Jonson. 
A freak; trick; quirk. [Obs.] Ford. 
A dry measure formerly used in Scotland; the fourth part of a boll of grain or meal. The Linlithgow wheat firlot was to the imperial bushel as 998 to 1000; the barley firlot as 1456 to 1000. Brande & C. 
The name, title, or style, under which a company transacts business; a partnership of two or more persons; a commercial house; as, the firm of Hope & Co. 
The orb of the fixed stars; the most rmote of the celestial spheres. 
In Turkey and some other Oriental countries, a decree or mandate issued by the sovereign; a royal order or grant; -- generally given for special objects, as to a traveler to insure him protection and assistance. [Written also firmaun.] 
In a firm manner. 
The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafters taken together. [Obs.] 
Made of fir; abounding in firs. In firry woodlands making moan. Tennyson. 
Before any other person or thing in time, space, rank, etc.; -- much used in composition with adjectives and participles. Adam was first formed, then Eve. 1 Tim. ii. 13. At first, At the first, at the beginning or origin. -- First or last, at one time or another; at the beginning or end. And all are fools and lovers first or last. Dryden. 
The upper part of a duet, trio, etc., either vocal or instrumental; -- so called because it generally expresses the air, and has a preëminence in the combined effect. 
An arm of the sea; a frith. 
A public or state treasury. Burke. 
Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue. The fiscal arreangements of government. A. Hamilton. 
Pertaining to fustet or fisetin. 
A counter, used in various games. 
An oviparous, vertebrate animal usually having fins and a covering scales or plates. It breathes by means of gills, and lives almost entirely in the water. See Pisces. 
Bellying or swelling out on the under side; as, a fish-bellied rail. Knight. 
A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela Canadensis); the pekan; the "black cat." 
To run about; to frisk; to whisk. [Obs.] He fisks abroad, and stirreth up erroneous opinions. Latimer. 
the index mark [], used to direct special attention to the passage which follows. Hand over fist (Naut.), rapidly; hand over hand. 
Pertaining to boxing, or to encounters with the fists; puglistic; as, fistic exploits; fistic heroes. [Colloq.] 
imp. & p. p. of Fight. [Obs. or Colloq.] 
In Old English, a song; a strain; a canto or portion of a ballad; a passus. [Written also fitte, fytte, etc.] To play some pleasant fit. Spenser. 
A vetch. [Obs.] 
The European polecat; also, its fur. 
Sharpened to a point; pointed. Cross fitché, a cross having the lower arm pointed. 
Having fitches or vetches. 
Fitché. 
Full of fits; irregularly variable; impulsive and unstable. After life's fitful fever, he sleeps well. Shak. -- Fit"ful*ly, adv. -- Fit"ful*ness, n. The victorius trumpet peal Dies fitfully away. Macaulay. 
In a fit manner; suitably; properly; conveniently; as, a maxim fitly applied. 
See 2d Fit. 
A little piece; a flitter; a flinder. [Obs.] Where's the Frenchman Alas, he's all fitters. Beau. & Fl. 
A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp. of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as, Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke of Clarence. 
Four and one added; one more than four. 
See Cinquefoil. 
A kind of play with a ball against a wall, resembling tennis; - - so named because three fives, or fifteen, are counted to the game. Smart. Fives court, a place for playing fives. 
A disease of the glands under the ear in horses; the vives. Shak. 
Fixed; solidified. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To render (an impression) permanent by treating with such applications a will make it insensible to the action of light. Abney. 
fettling. [U.S.] 
Stable; non-volatile. Fixed air (Old Chem.), carbonic acid or carbon dioxide; -- so called by Dr. Black because it can be absorbed or fixed by strong bases. See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic. -- Fixed alkali (Old Chem.), a non-volatile base, as soda, or potash, in distinction from the volatile alkali ammonia. -- Fixed ammunition (Mil.), a projectile and powder inclosed together in a case ready for loading. -- Fixed battery (Mil.), a battery which contains heavy guns and mortars intended to remain stationary; -- distinguished from movable battery. -- Fixed bodies, those which can not be volatilized or separated by a common menstruum, without great difficulty, as gold, platinum, lime, etc. -- Fixed capital. See the Note under Capital, n., 4. -- Fixed fact, a well established fact. [Colloq.] -- Fixed light, one which emits constant beams; -- distinguished from a flashing, revolving, or intermittent light. -- Fixed oils (Chem.), non-volatile, oily substances, as stearine and olein, which leave a permanent greasy stain, and which can not be distilled unchanged; -- distinguished from volatile or essential oils. -- Fixed pivot (Mil.), the fixed point about which any line of troops wheels. -- Fixed stars (Astron.), such stars as always retain nearly the same apparent position and distance with respect to each other, thus distinguished from planets and comets. 
Arrangements; embellishments; trimmings; accompaniments. [Colloq. U.S.] 
Anything of an accessory character annexed to houses and lands, so as to constitute a part of them. This term is, however, quite frequently used in the peculiar sense of personal chattels annexed to lands and tenements, but removable by the person annexing them, or his personal representatives. In this latter sense, the same things may be fixtures under some circumstances, and not fixtures under others. Wharton (Law Dict. ). Bouvier. 
Fixed position; stable condition; firmness. [Obs.] Shak. 
A fishing spear. [Obs.] Sandys. 
A firework, made of damp powder, which makes a fizzing or hissing noise when it explodes. 
A gadding, flirting girl. Gosson. 
To make a hissing sound, as a burning fuse. 
A hising sound; as, the fizz of a fly. 
A failure or abortive effort. [Colloq.] 
See Fiord. 
Yielding to the touch, and easily moved or shaken; hanging loose by its own weight; wanting firmness; flaccid; as, flabby flesh. 
A fan. [Obs.] Huloet. 
A small glass bottle; as, a flacon for perfume. "Two glass flacons for the ink." Longfellow. 
An aquatic plant, with long, ensiform leaves, belonging to either of the genera Iris and Acorus. Cooper's flag, the cat-tail (Typha latifolia), the long leaves of which are placed between the staves of barrels to make the latter water-tight. -- Corn flag. See under 2d Corn. -- Flag broom, a coarse of broom, originally made of flags or rushes. -- Flag root, the root of the sweet flag. -- Sweet flag. See Calamus, n., 2. 
To furnish or deck out with flags. 
Any hard, evenly stratified sandstone, which splits into layers suitable for flagstones. 
To lay with flags of flat stones. The sides and floor are all flagged with . . . marble. Sandys. 
Abounding with the plant called flag; as, a flaggy marsh. 
A vessel with a narrow mouth, used for holding and conveying liquors. It is generally larger than a bottle, and of leather or stoneware rather than of glass. A trencher of mutton chops, and a flagon of ale. Macaulay. 
Acting like a flail. [Obs.] Vicars. 
p. p. of Flay. Chaucer. 
A small stage hung over a vessel's side, for workmen to stand on in calking, etc. 
A sort of carnation with only two colors in the flower, the petals having large stripes. Flake knife (Archæol.), a cutting instrument used by savage tribes, made of a flake or chip of hard stone. Tylor. -- Flake stand, the cooling tub or vessel of a still worm. Knight. -- Flake white. (Paint.) (a) The purest white lead, in the form of flakes or scales. (b) The trisnitrate of bismuth. Ure. 
To form into flakes. Pope. 
To separate in flakes; to peel or scale off. 
Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, or cleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike. What showers of mortal hail, what flaky fires! Watts. A flaky weight of winter's purest snows. Wordsworth. 
A freak or whim; also, a falsehood; a lie; an illusory pretext; deception; delusion. [Obs.] A perpetual abuse and flam upon posterity. South. 
To deceive with a falsehood. [Obs.] God is not to be flammed off with lies. South. 
Decorated by glaze splashed or irregularly spread upon the surface, or apparently applied at the top and allowed to run down the sides; -- said of pieces of Chinese porcelain. 
To kindle; to inflame; to excite. And flamed with zeal of vengeance inwardly. Spenser. 
A priest devoted to the service of a particular god, from whom he received a distinguishing epithet. The most honored were those of Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, called respectively Flamen Dialis, Flamen Martialis, and Flamen Quirinalis. Affrights the flamens at their service quaint. Milton. 
Flaming; blazing; flamelike; flame-colored; composed of flame. Pope. 
A bearing consisting of a segment of a circle encroaching on the field from the side. 
A miner's two-pointed pick. 
To make a flange on; to furnish with a flange. 
To be bent into a flange. 
That part of a bastion which reaches from the curtain to the face, and defends the curtain, the flank and face of the opposite bastion; any part of a work defending another by a fire along the outside of its parapet. See Illust. of Bastion. 
One who, or that which, flanks, as a skirmisher or a body of troops sent out upon the flanks of an army toguard a line of march, or a fort projecting so as to command the side of an assailing body. They threw out flankers, and endeavored to dislodge their assailants. W. Irwing. 
Anything broad and limber that hangs loose, or that is attached by one side or end and is easily moved; as, the flap of a garment. A cartilaginous flap upon the opening of the larynx. Sir T. Browne. 
To swallow whole, as a flapdragon; to devour. [Obs.] See how the sea flapdragoned it. Shak. 
Leaf of lard. "Pig's flare." Dunglison. 
To cover with a thin layer, as objects of glass with glass of a different color. See Flashing, n., 3 (b). 
Slang or cant of thieves and prostitutes. 
A reservoir and sluiceway beside a navigable stream, just above a shoal, so that the stream may pour in water as boats pass, and thus bear them over the shoal. Flash wheel (Mech.), a paddle wheel made to revolve in a breast or curved water way, by which water is lifted from the lower to the higher level. 
The wooden or iron frame which holds the sand, etc., forming the mold used in a foundry; it consists of two or more parts; viz., the cope or top; sometimes, the cheeks, or middle part; and the drag, or bottom part. When there are one or more cheeks, the flask is called a three part flask, four part flask, etc. Erlenmeyer flask, a thin glass flask, flat-bottomed and cone-shaped to allow of safely shaking its contents laterally without danger of spilling; -- so called from Erlenmeyer, a German chemist who invented it. -- Florence flask. Etym: [From Florence in Italy.] (a) Same as Betty, n., 3. (b) A glass flask, round or pear-shaped, with round or flat bottom, and usually very thin to allow of heating solutions. -- Pocket flask, a kind of pocket dram bottle, often covered with metal or leather to protect it from breaking. 
Wanting relief; destitute of variety; without points of prominence and striking interest. A large part of the work is, to me, very flat. Coleridge. 
Without allowance for accrued interest. [Broker's Cant] 
A floor, loft, or story in a building; especially, a floor of a house, which forms a complete residence in itself. 
To fall form the pitch. To flat out, to fail from a promising beginning; to make a bad ending; to disappoint expectations. [Colloq.] 
In a flat manner; evenly; horizontally; without spirit; dully; frigidly; peremptori;y; positively, plainly. "He flatly refused his aid." Sir P. Sidney. He that does the works of religion slowly, flatly, and without appetite. Jer. Taylor. 
Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are more or less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware. 
To throw or spread out; to flutter; to move ostentatiously; as, a flaunting show. You flaunt about the streets in your new gilt chariot. Arbuthnot. One flaunts in rags, one flutters in brocade. Pope. 
To display ostentatiously; to make an impudent show of. 
Anything displayed for show. [Obs.] In these my borrowed flaunts. Shak. 
A flute. Flaute piccolo ( Etym: [It., little flute], an octave flute. -- Flauto traverso ( Etym: [It., transverse flute], the German flute, held laterally, instead of being played, like the old flûte a bec, with a mouth piece at the end. 
A yellow, vegetable dyestuff, resembling quercitron. 
A yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from anthraquinone, and regarded as a hydroxyl derivative of it. 
To give flavor to; to add something (as salt or a spice) to, to give character or zest. 
Free from flaws. Boyle. 
A sort of flat custard or pie. [Obs.] Tusser. 
A plant of the genus Linum, esp. the L. usitatissimum, which has a single, slender stalk, about a foot and a half high, with blue flowers. The fiber of the bark is used for making thread and cloth, called linen, cambric, lawn, lace, etc. Linseed oil is expressed from the seed. 
Made of flax; resembling flax or its fibers; of the color of flax; of a light soft straw color; fair and flowing, like flax or tow; as, flaxen thread; flaxen hair. 
Like flax; flaxen. Sir M. Sandys. 
To skin; to strip off the skin or surface of; as, to flay an ox; to flay the green earth. With her nails She 'll flay thy wolfish visage. Shak. 
One who strips off the skin. 
To flay. [Obs.] He will be fleaced first And horse collars made of's skin. J. Fletcher. 
An insect belonging to the genus Pulex, of the order Aphaniptera. Fleas are destitute of wings, but have the power of leaping energetically. The bite is poisonous to most persons. The human flea (Pulex irritans), abundant in Europe, is rare in America, where the dog flea (P. canis) takes its place. See Aphaniptera, and Dog flea. See Illustration in Appendix. A flea in the ear, an unwelcome hint or unexpected reply, annoying like a flea; an irritating repulse; as, to put a flea in one's ear; to go away with a flea in one's ear. -- Beach flea, Black flea, etc. See under Beach, etc. 
imp. of Fly. 
A flake; a thread or twist. [Obs.] Little long fleaks or threads of hemp. Dr. H. More. 
A sharp instrument used for opening veins, lancing gums, etc.; a kind of lancet. Fleam tooth, a tooth of a saw shaped like an isosceles triangle; a peg tooth. Knight. 
Bloody; clotted. [Obs. or Prov.] Foamy bubbling of a fleamy brain. Marston. 
See Fleer. 
A simple fieldwork, consisting of two faces forming a salient angle pointing outward and open at the gorge. 
A flake; also, a lock, as of wool. [Obs.] J. Martin. 
A spot; a streak; a speckle. "A sunny fleck." Longfellow. Life is dashed with flecks of sin. tennyson. 
To spot; to streak or stripe; to variegate; to dapple. Both flecked with white, the true Arcadian strain. Dryden. A bird, a cloud, flecking the sunny air. Trench. 
imp. & p. p. of Flee. 
Feathered; furnished with feathers or wings; able to fly. Hfledge with wings. Milton. 
A young bird just fledged. 
To run away, as from danger or evil; to avoid in an alarmed or cowardly manner; to hasten off; -- usually with from. This is sometimes omitted, making the verb transitive. [He] cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke. Shak. Flee fornication. 1 Cor. vi. 18. So fled his enemies my warlike father. Shak. 
The fine web of cotton or wool removed by the doffing knife from the cylinder of a carding machine. Fleece wool, wool shorn from the sheep. -- Golden fleece. See under Golden. 
Without a fleece. 
Covered with, made of, or resembling, a fleece. "Fleecy flocks." Prior. 
Obs. pl. of Flea. Chaucer. 
One who flees. Ld. Berners. 
To mock; to flout at. Beau. & Fl. 
One who fleers. Beau. & Fl. 
To slip on the whelps or the barrel of a capstan or windlass; - - said of a cable or hawser. 
A number of vessels in company, especially war vessels; also, the collective naval force of a country, etc. Fleet captain, the senior aid of the admiral of a fleet, when a captain. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
To take the cream from; to skim. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson. 
imp. of Fly. Chaucer. 
To banish; to drive out; to expel. [Obs.] "Appetite flemeth discretion." Chaucer. 
One who, or that which, banishes or expels. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Flence. 
To strip the blubber or skin from, as from a whale, seal, etc. the flensed carcass of a fur seal. U. S. Census (1880). 
To remove flesh, membrance, etc., from, as from hides. 
Composed of firm pulp; succulent; as, the houseleek, cactus, and agave are fleshy plants. 
Skimmed. [Obs.] 
To feather, as an arrow. Bp. Warburton. [Congress] fletched their complaint, by adding: "America loved his brother." Bancroft. 
To float; to swim. [Obs.] "Whether I sink or flete." Chaucer. 
Finished at the ends with fleurs-de-lis; -- said esp. a cross so decorated. 
imp. of Fly. 
Having large flews. Shak. 
The pendulous or overhanging lateral parts of the upper lip of dogs, especially prominent in hounds; -- called also chaps. See Illust. of Bloodhound. 
To bend; as, to flex the arm. 
Flax. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A muscle which bends or flexes any part; as, the flexors of the arm or the hand; -- opposed to extensor. 
To whip lightly or with a quick jerk; to flap; as, to flick a horse; to flick the dirt from boots. Thackeray. 
A flitch; as, a flick of bacon. 
Fledged; fledge. [Obs.] Holland. 
To become fledged; to fledge. [Obs.] Every day build their nests, every hour flidge. R. Greene. 
A fly. See Fly, n., 9, and 13 (b). 
Feathered; -- said of arrows. 
Weak; feeble; limp; slight; vain; without strength or solidity; of loose and unsubstantial structure; without reason or plausibility; as, a flimsy argument, excuse, objection. Proud of a vast extent of flimsy lines. Pope. All the flimsy furniture of a country miss's brain. Sheridan. 
To let the foot slip from a ball, when attempting to give a tight croquet. 
The act of flinching. 
One who kicks up the dust; a streetwalker; a low manner. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
A massive, somewhat impure variety of quartz, in color usually of a gray to brown or nearly black, breaking with a conchoidal fracture and sharp edge. It is very hard, and strikes fire with steel. 
Consisting of, composed of, abounding in, or resembling, flint; as, a flinty rock; flinty ground; a flinty heart. Flinty rockFlinty state, a siliceous slate; -- basanite is here included. See Basanite. 
A mixture of beer, spirit, etc., stirred and heated by a hot iron. Flip dog, an iron used, when heated, to warm flip. 
To toss or fillip; as, to flip up a cent. As when your little ones Do 'twixt their fingers flip their cherry stones. W. Browne. 
To turn inside out, or with the leg part back over the foot, as a stocking in pulling off or for putting on. [Scot.] 
One who flirts; esp., a woman who acts with giddiness, or plays at courtship; a coquette; a pert girl. Several young flirts about town had a design to cast us out of the fashionable world. Addison. 
Pert; wanton. [Obs.] 
To frisk; to skip; to caper. [Obs. Scot.] "The flisking flies." Gosson. 
A caper; a spring; a whim. [Scot.] 
Nimble; quick; swift. [Obs.] See Fleet. 
To scold; to quarrel. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
Unstable; fluttering. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
Down; fur. [Obs. or Eng.] J. Dyer. 
The flux; dysentery. [Obs.] Udall. Flix weed (Bot.), the Sisymbrium Sophia, a kind of hedge mustard, formerly used as a remedy for dysentery. 
An arrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A contrivance for affording a copious stream of water to the heated surface of an object of large bulk, as an anvil or die. Knight. 
To pass over and level the surface of with a float while the plastering is kept wet. 
Swimming on the surface; buoyant; light. Sir W. Raleigh. 
To gather in companies or crowds. Friends daily flock. Dryden. Flocking fowl (Zoöl.), the greater scaup duck. 
To flock to; to crowd. [Obs.] Good fellows, trooping, flocked me so. Taylor (1609). 
To coat with flock, as wall paper; to roughen the surface of (as glass) so as to give an appearance of being covered with fine flock. 
Abounding with flocks; floccose. 
A low, flat mass of floating ice. Floe rat (Zoöl.), a seal (Phoca foetida). 
To beat or strike with a rod or whip; to whip; to lash; to chastise with repeated blows. 
See Flo. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. & p. p. of Fling. 
Inundation. [R.] Carlyle. 
A fluke of an anchor. 
Fluky. 
That part of the bottom of a vessel on each side of the keelson which is most nearly horizontal. 
Floor space. 
Act of flopping. [Colloq.] W. H. Russell. 
Having a tendency to flop or flap; as, a floppy hat brim. G. Eliot. 
The goddess of flowers and spring. 
Containing, or belonging to, a flower; as, a floral bud; a floral leaf; floral characters. Martyn. Floral envelope (Bot.), the calyx and corolla, one or the other of which (mostly the corolla) may be wanting. 
Tin ore scarcely perceptible in the stone; tin ore stamped very fine. Pryce. 
A cerain gold coin; a Florence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A little flower; one of the numerous little flowers which compose the head or anthodium in such flowers as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion. Gray. 
Flowery; ornamental; running in rapid melodic figures, divisions, or passages, as in variations; full of fioriture or little ornamentations. 
A silver coin of Florence, first struck in the twelfth century, and noted for its beauty. The name is given to different coins in different countries. The florin of England, first minted in 1849, is worth two shillings, or about 48 cents; the florin of the Netherlands, about 40 cents; of Austria, about 36 cents. 
A hopper-shaped box or Knight. 
The slender styles of the pistillate flowers of maize; also called silk. 
A flowering; florification. [R.] Craig. 
Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, floss; hence, light; downy. 
A fleet; especially, a 
To fleet; to skim. [Obs.] Tusser. 
A wave. [Obs.] "The Mediterranean flote." Shak. 
The finely ground meal of wheat, or of any other grain; especially, the finer part of meal separated by bolting; hence, the fine and soft powder of any substance; as, flour of emery; flour of mustard. Flour bolt, in milling, a gauze-covered, revolving, cylindrical frame or reel, for sifting the flour from the refuse contained in the meal yielded by the stones. -- Flour box a tin box for scattering flour; a dredging box. -- Flour dredge or dredger, a flour box. -- Flour dresser, a mashine for sorting and distributing flour according to grades of fineness. -- Flour mill, a mill for grinding and sifting flour. 
Finely granulated; -- said of quicksilver which has been granulated by agitation during the amalgamation process. Raymond. 
Of or resembling flour; mealy; covered with flour. Dickens. 
To mock or insult; to treat with contempt. Phillida flouts me. Walton. Three gaudy standarts lout the pale blue sky. Byron. 
To practice mocking; to behave with contempt; to sneer; to fleer; -- often with at. Fleer and gibe, and laugh and flout. Swift. 
A mock; an insult. Who put your beauty to this flout and scorn. Tennyson. 
imp. sing. of Fly, v. i. Chaucer. 
An overflowing with water; also, the water which thus overflows. 
imp. pl. of Fly, v. i. Chaucer. 
That part of a plant destined to produce seed, and hence including one or both of the sexual organs; an organ or combination of the organs of reproduction, whether inclosed by a circle of foliar parts or not. A complete flower consists of two essential parts, the stamens and the pistil, and two floral envelopes, the corolla and callyx. In mosses the flowers consist of a few special leaves surrounding or subtending organs called archegonia. See Blossom, and Corolla. 
To embellish with flowers; to adorn with imitated flowers; as, flowered silk. 
See 1st Fluke. 
p. p. of Fly; -- often used with the auxiliary verb to be; as, the birds are flown. 
Flushed, inflated. 
A variant of Flute. [Obs.] 
A fluoride. [Obs.] 
Soft clayey matter in the vein, or surrounding it. [Written also flookan, flukan, and fluccan.] 
An inclosed passage way for establishing and directing a current of air, gases, etc.; an air passage; esp.: (a) A compartment or division of a chimney for conveying flame and smoke to the outer air. (b) A passage way for conducting a current of fresh, foul, or heated air from one place to another. (c) (Steam Boiler) A pipe or passage for conveying flame and hot gases through surrounding water in a boiler; -- distinguished from a tube which holds water and is surrounded by fire. Small flues are called fire tubes or simply tubes. Flue boiler. See under Boiler. -- Flue bridge, the separating low wall between the flues and the laboratory of a reverberatory furnace. -- Flue plate (Steam Boiler), a plate to which the ends of the flues are fastened; -- called also flue sheet, tube sheet, and tube plate. -- Flue surface (Steam Boiler), the aggregate surface of flues exposed to flame or the hot gases. 
Light down, such as rises from cotton, fur, etc.; very fine lint or hair. Dickens. 
A variable quantity, considered as increasing or diminishing; - - called, in the modern calculus, the function or integral. 
Downy; fluffy. [R.] 
Nap or down; flue; soft, downy feathers. 
Pertaining to, or resembling, fluff or nap; soft and downy. "The carpets were fluffy." Thackeray. The present Barnacle . . . had a youthful aspect, and the fluffiest little whisker, perhaps, that ever was seen. Dickens. -- Fluff"i*ness, n. 
Having particles which easily move and change their relative position without a separation of the mass, and which easily yield to pressure; capable of flowing; liquid or gaseous. 
A fluid substance; a body whose particles move easily among themselves. 
Flucan. 
One of the lobes of a whale's tail, so called from the resemblance to the fluke of an anchor. 
Formed like, or having, a fluke. 
A stream; especially, a passage channel, or conduit for the water that drives a mill wheel; or an artifical channel of water for hydraulic or placer mining; also, a chute for conveying logs or lumber down a declivity. 
imp. & p. p. of Fling. 
To fail, as on a lesson; to back out, as from an undertaking, through fear. 
To fail in; to shirk, as a task or duty. [Colloq. U.S.] 
A failure or backing out; specifically (College cant), 
The place or region of flunkies. C. Kingsley. 
See Fluorite. 
To put in a state of agitation; to excite or alarm. H. Swinburne. 
A flirt. [Obs.] Quarles. 
A hand of cards of the same suit. 
Unbroken or even in surface; on a level with the adjacent surface; forming a continuous surface; as, a flush panel; a flush joint. 
So as to be level or even. 
A channel of curved section; -- usually applied to one of a vertical series of such channels used to decorate columns and pilasters in classical architecture. See Illust. under Base, n. 
A kindof flyboat; a storeship. Armed en flûte ( (Nav.), partially armed. 
To play on, or as on, a flute; to make a flutelike sound. 
A beak flute, an older form of the flute, played with a mouthpiece resembling a beak, and held like a flageolet. 
A fish of the genus Aulostoma, having a much elongated tubular snout. 
Decoration by means of flutes or channels; a flute, or flutes collectively; as, the fluting of a column or pilaster; the fluting of a lady's ruffle. Fluting iron, a laundry iron for fluting ruffles; -- called also Italian iron, or gaufering iron. Knight. -- Fluting lathe, a machine for forming spiral flutes, as on balusters, table legs, etc. 
Soft and clear in tone, like a flute. 
Any substance or mixture used to promote the fusion of metals or minerals, as alkalies, borax, lime, fluorite. 
Flowing; unstable; inconstant; variable. The flux nature of all things here. Barrow. 
To cause a discharge from; to purge. 
That part of a compass on which the points are marked; the compass card. Totten. 
Knowing; wide awake; fully understanding another's meaning. [Slang] Dickens. 
One in a flight of steps which are parallel to each other(as in ordinary stairs), as distinguished from a winder. 
Moving in the air with, or as with, wings; moving lightly or rapidly; intended for rapid movement. 
The driver of a fly, or light public carriage. 
A name given to the series of sandstones and schists overlying the true nummulitic formation in the Alps, and included in the Eocene Tertiary. 
To breathe heavily; to snort. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The young of any animal of the Horse family (Equidæ); a colt; a filly. Foal teeth (Zoöl.), the first set of teeth of a horse. -- In foal, With foal, being with young; pregnant; -- said of a mare or she ass. 
To bring forth (a colt); -- said of a mare or a she ass. 
To bring forth young, as an animal of the horse kind. 
The white substance, consisting of an aggregation of bubbles, which is formed on the surface of liquids,or in the mouth of an animal, by violent agitation or fermentation; froth; spume; scum; as, the foam of the sea. Foam cock, in steam boilers, a cock at the water level, to blow off impurities. 
To cause to foam; as,to foam the goblet; also (with out), to throw out with rage or violence, as foam. "Foaming out their own shame." Jude 13. 
Covered with foam; frothy; spumy. Behold how high the foamy billows ride! Dryden. 
A little pocket for a watch. Fob chain, a short watch chain worn a watch carried in the fob. 
Belonging to,or concerning, a focus; as, a focal point. Focal distance, or length,of a lens or mirror (Opt.), the distance of the focus from the surface of the lens or mirror, or more exactly, in the case of a lens, from its optical center. --Focal distance of a telescope, the distance of the image of an object from the object glass. 
A point in which the rays of light meet, after being reflected or refrcted, and at which the image is formed; as, the focus of a lens or mirror. 
To bring to a focus; to focalize; as, to focus a camera. R. Hunt. 
A weight by which lead and some other metals were formerly sold, in England, varying from 19 [Obs.] 
That which is fed out to cattle horses, and sheep, as hay, cornstalks, vegetables, etc. 
To feed, as cattle, with dry food or cut grass, etc.;to furnish with hay, straw, oats, etc. 
See Fiend, and cf. Feud a quarrel. 
To treat as an enemy. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Enmity. Br. Bedell. 
An enemy in war. And the stern joy which warriors feel In foemen worthy of their steel. Sir W. Scott 
Same as Fetal. 
Same as Fetor. 
Same as Fetus. 
(Agric.) To pasture cattle on the fog, or aftergrass, of; to eat off the fog from. 
To practice in a small or mean way; to pettifog. [Obs.] Where wouldst thou fog to get a fee Dryden. 
To envelop, as with fog; to befog; to overcast; to darken; to obscure. 
To show indistinctly or become indistinct, as the picture on a negative sometimes does in the process of development. 
A nebulous arch, or bow, of white or yellowish light sometimes seen in fog, etc. 
The Cornish name for a forge used for smelting tin. Raymond 
See Fogy. 
One who fogs; a pettifogger. [Obs.] A beggarly fogger. Terence in English(1614) 
See Fogy. 
A dull old fellow; a person behind the times, over- conservative, or slow; -- usually preceded by old. [Written also fogie and fogey.] [Colloq.] Notorious old bore; regular old fogy. Thackeray. 
An exclamation of abhorrence or contempt; poh; fle. Shak. 
A Buddhist priest. See Fo. 
Weak; feeble. [Obs.] Lord Herbert. 
To defile; to soil. [Obs.] 
A thin leaf of sheet copper silvered and burnished, and afterwards coated with transparent colors mixed with isinglass; -- employed by jewelers to give color or brilliancy to pastes and inferior stones. Ure. 
One who foils or frustrates. Johnson. 
The beech marten (Mustela foina). See Marten. 
To thrust with a sword or spear; to lunge. [Obs.] He stroke, he soused, he foynd, he hewed, he lashed. Spenser. They lash, they foin, they pass, they strive to bore Their corselets, and the thinnest parts explore. Dryden. 
To prick; to stng. [Obs.] Huloet. 
A pass in fencing; a lunge. [Obs.] Shak. 
Rich harvest; plenty; abundance. [Archaic] Lowell. That from the seedness the bare fallow brings To teeming foison. Shak. 
A light and fast-sailing ship. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
To insert surreptitiously, wrongfully, or without warrant; to interpolate; to pass off (something spurious or counterfeit) as genuine, true, or worthy; -- usually followed by in. Lest negligence or partiality might admit or fois in abuses corruption. R. Carew. When a scripture has been corrupted . . . by a supposititious foisting of some words in. South. 
One who foists something surreptitiously; a falsitier. Mir. for Mag. 
Fusty; musty. [Obs.] Johnson. 
To become folded, plaited, or doubled; to close over another of the same kind; to double together; as, the leaves of the door fold. 1 Kings vi. 34. 
To confine in a fold, as sheep. 
To confine sheep in a fold. [R.] The star that bids the shepherd fold. Milton. 
One who, or that which, folds; esp., a flat, knifelike instrument used for folding paper. 
Consisting of, or pertaining to, leaves; as, foliar appendages. Foliar gap (Bot.), an opening in the fibrovascular system of a stem at the point of origin of a leaf. -- Foliar trace (Bot.), a particular fibrovascular bundle passing down into the stem from a leaf. 
Goldsmith's foil. [R.] Sprat. 
Foolishly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The page number. The even folios are on the left-hand pages and the odd folios on the right-hand. 
To put a serial number on each folio or page of (a book); to page. 
Formed of sheets each folded once, making two leaves, or four pages; as, a folio volume. See Folio, n., 3. 
A curve of the third order, consisting of two infinite branches, which have a common asymptote. The curve has a double point, and a leaf-shaped loop; whence the name. Its equation is x3 + y3 = axy. 
To go or come after; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb: To pursue; to attend; to accompany; to be a result; to imitate. 
To follow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who foments; one who encourages or instigates; as, a fomenter of sedition. 
Any substance supposed to be capable of absorbing, retaining, and transporting contagious or infectious germs; as, woolen clothes are said to be active fomites. 
A fool; an idiot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. of Find. Found. Chaucer. 
To caress; to fondle. [Obs.] The Tyrian hugs and fonds thee on her breast. Dryden. 
To be fond; to dote. [Obs.] Shak. 
To endeavor; to strive; to try. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To treat or handle with tenderness or in a loving manner; to caress; as, a nurse fondles a child. 
A large copper vessel used for hot amalgamation. 
Blended; passing into each other by subtle gradations; -- said of colors or of the surface or material on which the colors are laid. 
A style of printing calico, paper hangings, etc., in which the colors are in bands and graduated into each other. Ure. 
pl. of Foe. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To take; to receive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Foolishly; fondly. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A fon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A complete assortment of printing type of one size, including a due proportion of all the letters in the alphabet, large and small, points, accents, and whatever else is necessary for printing with that variety of types; a fount. 
Pertaining to a font, fountain, source, or origin; original; primitive. [R.] From the fontal light of ideas only can a man draw intellectual power. Coleridge. 
To supply with food. [Obs.] Baret. 
Eatable; fruitful. [R.] Chapman. 
A compound of gooseberries scalded and crushed, with cream; -- commonly called gooseberry fool. 
One who acts contrary to moral and religious wisdom; a wicked person. The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Ps. xiv. 1. 
To play the fool; to trifle; to toy; to spend time in idle sport or mirth. Is this a time for fooling Dryden. 
Same as Fulahs. 
The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., the part below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which it rests when standing, or moves. See Manus, and Pes. 
An inflated ball to be kicked in sport, usually made in India rubber, or a bladder incased in Leather. Waller. 
A setting down of the foot; a footstep; the sound of a footstep. Shak. Seraphim, whose footfalls tinkled on the tufted floor. Poe 
The settlings of oil, molasses, etc., at the bottom of a barrel or hogshead. Simmonds. 
To bungle; to manage awkwardly; to treat or play unskillfully; as, to foozle a stroke in golf. 
One whose ambition it is to gain admiration by showy dress; a coxcomb; an inferior dandy. 
In the most general sense, indicating that in consideration of, in view of, or with reference to, which anything is done or takes place. 
One who takes, or that which is said on, the affrimative side; that which is said in favor of some one or something; -- the antithesis of against, and commonly used in connection with it. The fors and against. those in favor and those opposed; the pros and the cons; the advantages and the disadvantages. Jane Austen. 
To wander or rove in search of food; to collect food, esp. forage, for horses and cattle by feeding on or stripping the country; to ravage; to feed on spoil. His most mighty father on a hill Stood smiling to behold his lion's whelp Forage in blood of French nobility. Shak. Foraging ant (Zoöl.), one of several species of ants of the genus Eciton, very abundant in tropical America, remarkable for marching in vast armies in search of food. -- Foraging cap, a forage cap. -- Foraging party, a party sent out after forage. 
To strip of provisions; to supply with forage; as, to forage steeds. Pope. 
A sudden or irregular incursion in border warfare; hence, any irregular incursion for war or spoils; a raid. Spenser. The huge Earl Doorm, . . . Bound on a foray, rolling eyes of prey. Tennyson. 
To pillage; to ravage. He might foray our lands. Sir W. Scott. 
To utter a prohibition; to prevent; to hinder. "I did not or forbid." Milton. 
Near; hard by; along; past. [Obs.] To tell her if her child went ought forby. Chaucer. To the intent that ships may pass along forby all the sides of the city without let. Robynson (More's Utopia). 
To stuff; to lard; to farce. [R.] Wit larded with malice, and malice forced with wit. Shak. 
A waterfall; a cascade. [Prov. Eng.] To see the falls for force of the river Kent. T. Gray. 
Any action between two bodies which changes, or tends to change, their relative condition as to rest or motion; or, more generally, which changes, or tends to change, any physical relation between them, whether mechanical, thermal, chemical, electrical, magnetic, or of any other kind; as, the force of gravity; cohesive force; centrifugal force. Animal force (Physiol.), muscular force or energy. -- Catabiotic force Etym: [Gr. (Biol.), the influence exerted by living structures on adjoining cells, by which the latter are developed in harmony with the primary structures. -- Centrifugal force, Centripetal force, Coercive force, etc. See under Centrifugal, Centripetal, etc. -- Composition of forces, Correlation of forces, etc. See under Composition, Correlation, etc. -- Force and arms Etym: [trans. of L. vi et armis] (Law), an expression in old indictments, signifying violence. -- In force, or Of force, of unimpaired efficacy; valid; of full virtue; not suspended or reversed. "A testament is of force after men are dead." Heb. ix. 17. -- Metabolic force (Physiol.), the influence which causes and controls the metabolism of the body. -- No force, no matter of urgency or consequence; no account; hence, to do no force, to make no account of; not to heed. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- Of force, of necessity; unavoidably; imperatively. "Good reasons must, of force, give place to better." Shak. -- Plastic force (Physiol.), the force which presumably acts in the growth and repair of the tissues. -- Vital force (Physiol.), that force or power which is inherent in organization; that form of energy which is the cause of the vital phenomena of the body, as distinguished from the physical forces generally known. 
To compel (an adversary or partner) to trump a trick by leading a suit of which he has none. 
Done or produced with force or great labor, or by extraordinary exertion; hurried; strained; produced by unnatural effort or pressure; as, a forced style; a forced laugh. Forced draught. See under Draught. -- Forced march (Mil.), a march of one or more days made with all possible speed. -- For"ced*ly, adv. -- For"ced*ness, n. 
Seemingly vigorous, but really weak or insipid. He [Prof. Ayton] would purge his book of much offensive matter, if he struck out epithets which are in the bad taste of the forcible-feeble school. N. Brit. Review. 
To cut completely; to cut off. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To pass or cross, as a river or other water, by wading; to wade through. His last section, which is no deep one, remains only to be forted. Milton. 
Undone; ruined. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Entirely dry; withered. [Obs.] "A tree fordry." Chaucer. 
Journey; way; method of proceeding. [Obs.] "Follow him and his fore." Chaucer. 
In or towards the bows of a ship. Fore and aft (Naut.), from stem to stern; lengthwise of the vessel; -- in distinction from athwart. R. H. Dana, Jr. -- Fore-and-aft rigged (Naut.), not rigged with square sails attached to yards, but with sails bent to gaffs or set on stays in the midship line of the vessel. See Schooner, Sloop, Cutter. 
Advanced, as compared with something else; toward the front; being or coming first, in time, place, order, or importance; preceding; anterior; antecedent; earlier; forward; -- opposed to Ant: back or Ant: behind; as, the fore part of a garment; the fore part of the day; the fore and of a wagon. The free will of the subject is preserved, while it is directed by the fore purpose of the state. Southey. 
The front; hence, that which is in front; the future. At the fore (Naut.), at the fore royal masthead; -- said of a flag, so raised as a signal for sailing, etc. -- To the fore. (a) In advance; to the front; to a prominent position; in plain sight; in readiness for use. (b) In existence; alive; not worn out, lost, or spent, as money, etc. [Irish] "While I am to the fore." W. Collins. "How many captains in the regiment had two thousand pounds to the fore" Thackeray. 
Before; -- sometimes written 'fore as if a contraction of afore or before. [Obs.] 
Near; hard by; along; past. See Forby. Spenser. 
To go before; to precede; -- used especially in the present and past participles. Pleasing remembrance of a thought foregone. Wordsworth. For which the very mother's face forewent The mother's special patience. Mrs. Browning. Foregone conclusion, one which has preceded argument or examination; one predetermined. 
Foreign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A kind of parchment for book covers. See Forrill. 
To bind with a forel. [R.] Fuller. 
A large extent or precinct of country, generally waste and woody, belonging to the sovereign, set apart for the keeping of game for his use, not inclosed, but distinguished by certain limits, and protected by certain laws, courts, and officers of its own. Burrill. 
Of or pertaining to a forest; sylvan. Forest fly. (Zoöl.) (a) One of numerous species of blood-sucking flies, of the family Tabanidæ, which attack both men and beasts. See Horse fly. (b) A fly of the genus Hippobosca, esp. H. equina. See Horse tick. -- Forest glade, a grassy space in a forest. Thomson. -- Forest laws, laws for the protection of game, preservation of timber, etc., in forests. -- Forest tree, a tree of the forest, especially a timber tree, as distinguished from a fruit tree. 
To cover with trees or wood. 
A pair of shears. Pope. 
To move heavily and slowly, as a ship after the sails are furled; to work one's way, as one ship in outsailing another; -- used especially in the phrase to forge ahead. Totten. And off she [a ship] forged without a shock. De Quincey. 
To impel forward slowly; as, to forge a ship forward. 
One who forges, makes, of forms; a fabricator; a falsifier. 
In a forgetful manner. 
To pass by; to leave. See 1st Forego. For sith [since] I shall forgoon my liberty At your request. Chaucer. And four [days] since Florimell the court forwent. Spenser. 
imp. & p. p. of Forget. 
To raise, or pitch with a fork, as hay; to dig or turn over with a fork, as the soil. Forking the sheaves on the high-laden cart. Prof. Wilson. To fork over or out, to hand or pay over, as money. [Slang] G. Eliot. 
See Forcarve, v. t. 
Opening into two or more parts or shoots; forked; furcated. "Forky tongues." Pope. 
To lie in wait for; to ambush. An ambushed thief forlays a traveler. Dryden. 
To give up; to leave; to abandon. [Obs.] "To forlet sin." Chaucer. 
See Forlie. 
Same as Forlie. [Obs.] 
A suffix used to denote in the form or shape of, resembling, etc.; as, valiform; oviform. 
The type or other matter from which an impression is to be taken, arranged and secured in a chase. 
To derive by grammatical rules, as by adding the proper suffixes and affixes. 
A colorless, volatile liquid, H2CO, resembling acetic or ethyl aldehyde, and chemically intermediate between methyl alcohol and formic acid. 
The shape and size of a book; hence, its external form. 
Same as Paté or Patté. 
First. [Obs.] "Adam our forme father." Chaucer. 
Arranged, as stars in a constellation; as, formed stars. [R.] 
One of the half ribs against the walls in a ceiling vaulted with ribs. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, ants; as, formic acid; in an extended sense, pertaining to, or derived from, formic acid; as, formic ether. Amido formic acid, carbamic acid. -- Formic acid, a colorless, mobile liquid, HCO.OH, of a sharp, acid taste, occurring naturally in ants, nettles, pine needles, etc., and produced artifically in many ways, as by the oxidation of methyl alcohol, by the reduction of carbonic acid or the destructive distillation of oxalic acid. It is the first member of the fatty acids in the paraffin series, and is homologous with acetic acid. 
Predestined. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Very old. [Obs.] A bear's skin, coal-black, forold. Chaucer. 
To foray; to ravage; to pillage. For they that morn had forrayed all the land. Fairfax. 
The act of ravaging; a ravaging; a predatory excursion. See Foray. 
To forbid; to renounce; to forsake; to deny. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A strong or fortified place; usually, a small fortified place, occupied only by troops, surrounded with a ditch, rampart, and parapet, or with palisades, stockades, or other means of defense; a fortification. Detached works, depending solely on their own strength, belong to the class of works termed forts. Farrow. 
Loudly; strongly; powerfully. 
Furnished with, or guarded by, forts; strengthened or defended, as by forts. [R.] Shak. 
Forth from; out of. [Archaic] Some forth their cabins peep. Donne. 
A way; a passage or ford. [Obs.] Todd. 
Therefore. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A little fort; a fortlet. [Obs.] 
Four times ten; thirtynine and one more. 
One of those who went to California in the rush for gold in 1849; an argonaut. [Colloq., U. S.] 
Tired out with excessive waking or watching. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Wherefore; because. [Obs.] 
pres. indic. 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forwete. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A pit, groove, cavity, or depression, of greater or less depth; as, the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; the nasal fossæ containing the nostrils in most birds. 
A ditch or moat. 
A faucet. [Obs.] Shak. 
Like or pertaining to fossils; contained in rocks. whether petrified or not; as, fossil plants, shells. Fossil copal, a resinous substance, first found in the blue clay at Highgate, near London, and apparently a vegetable resin, partly changed by remaining in the earth. -- Fossil cork, flax, paper, or wood, varieties of amianthus. -- Fossil farina, a soft carbonate of lime. -- Fossil ore, fossiliferous red hematite. Raymond. 
The remains of an animal or plant found in stratified rocks. Most fossils belong to extinct species, but many of the later ones belong to species still living. 
To be nourished or trained up together. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Relating to nourishment; affording, receiving, or sharing nourishment or nurture; -- applied to father, mother, child, brother, etc., to indicate that the person so called stands in the relation of parent, child, brother, etc., as regards sustenance and nurture, but not by tie of blood. Foster babe, or child, an infant of child nursed by a woman not its mother, or bred by a man not its father. -- Foster brother, Foster sister, one who is, or has been, nursed at the same breast, or brought up by the same nurse as another, but is not of the same parentage. -- Foster dam, one who takes the place of a mother; a nurse. Dryden. -- Foster earth, earth by which a plant is nourished, though not its native soil. J. Philips. -- Foster father, a man who takes the place of a father in caring for a child. Bacon. -- Foster land. (a) Land allotted for the maintenance of any one. [Obs.] (b) One's adopted country. -- Foster lean Etym: [foster + AS. læn a loan See Loan.], remuneration fixed for the rearing of a foster child; also, the jointure of a wife. [Obs.] Wharton. -- Foster mother, a woman who takes a mother's place in the nurture and care of a child; a nurse. -- Foster nurse, a nurse; a nourisher. [R.] Shak. -- Foster parent, a foster mother or foster father. -- Foster son, a male foster child. 
A forester. [Obs.] Spenser. 
One who, or that which, fosters. 
To stop (a leak in a ship at sea) by drawing under its bottom a thrummed sail, so that the pressure of the water may force it into the crack. Totten. 
Nourishing. [Obs.] T. Carew (1633). 
Seventy pounds of lead. 
imp. & p. p. of Fight. 
A bird. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To incrust (the bore of a gun) with burnt powder in the process of firing. 
See Foul ball, under Foul, a. 
Foully. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In a foul manner; filthily; nastily; shamefully; unfairly; dishonorably. I foully wronged him; do forgive me, do. Gay. 
imp. & p. p. of Find. 
To form by melting a metal, and pouring it into a mold; to cast. "Whereof to found their engines." Milton. 
A thin, single-cut file for combmakers. 
The lowest and supporting part or member of a wall, including the base course (see Base course (a), under Base, n.) and footing courses; in a frame house, the whole substructure of masonry. 
A font. 
A fountain. 
One more than three; twice two. 
A trickly fellow; a cheat. [Obs.] Evelyn. Denham. 
The interval of two tones and a semitone, embracing four diatonic degrees of the scale; the subdominant of any key. The Fourth, specifically, un the United States, the fourth day of July, the anniversary of the declaration of American independence; as, to celebrate the Fourth. 
A viverrine animal of Madagascar (Cryptoprocta ferox). It resembles a cat in size and form, and has retractile claws. 
A despicable fellow. [Prov. Eng.] Brockett. 
A fig; -- a word of contempt. [Obs.] A foutra for the world and wordlings base! Shak. 
Despicable. [Obs.] 
A slight depression or pit; a fossa. 
To catch or kill wild fowl, for game or food, as by shooting, or by decoys, nets, etc. Such persons as may lawfully hunt, fish, or fowl. Blackstone. Fowling piece, a light gun with smooth bore, adapted for the use of small shot in killing birds or small quadrupeds. 
A sportsman who pursues wild fowl, or takes or kills for food. 
A carnivorous animal of the genus Vulpes, family Canidæ, of many species. The European fox (V. vulgaris or V. vulpes), the American red fox (V. fulvus), the American gray fox (V. Virginianus), and the arctic, white, or blue, fox (V. lagopus) are well-known species. 
To turn sour; -- said of beer, etc., when it sours in fermenting. 
An uproar; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl. 
Behavior like that of a fox; [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Fox, n., 7. 
Foxlike. [Obs.] 
Foxlike. [Obs.] "Foxly craft." Latimer. 
See Foison. 
Spongy; soft; fat and puffy. [Scot.] 
Fro. [Old Eng. & Scot.] 
Brother; -- a title of a monk of friar; as, Fra Angelo. Longfellow. 
To scold; to nag. [Prov. Eng.] 
A shallow iron pan to hold glass ware while being annealed. 
Rotten from being too ripe; overripe. [Obs.] Blount. 
To break; to violate. [Obs.] Shak. 
A strong or sweet scent. [Obs. & Illegitimate.] Sir T. Herbert. 
A basket made of rushes, used chiefly for containing figs and raisins. 
Weakly; infirmly. 
A large and thick pancake, with slices of bacon in it. [Obs.] Johnson. 
A defense consisting of pointed stakes driven into the ramparts in a horizontal or inclined position. 
To protect, as a line of troops, against an onset of cavalry, by opposing bayonets raised obliquely forward. Wilhelm. 
A freckle. [Obs.] A few fraknes in his face. Chaucer. 
To construct by fitting and uniting the several parts of the skeleton of any structure; specifically, in woodwork, to put together by cutting parts of one member to fit parts of another. See Dovetail, Halve, v. t., Miter, Tenon, Tooth, Tusk, Scarf, and Splice. 
A term applied, especially in England, to certain machines built upon or within framework; as, a stocking frame; lace frame; spinning frame, etc. 
One who frames; as, the framer of a building; the framers of the Constitution. 
A silver coin of France, and since 1795 the unit of the French monetary system. It has been adopted by Belgium and Swizerland. It is equivalent to about nineteen cents, or ten pence, and is divided into 100 centimes. 
A pigsty. [Obs.] 
To shut up in a frank or sty; to pen up; hence, to cram; to fatten. [Obs.] Shak. 
The common heron; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] 
The privilege of sending letters or other mail matter, free of postage, or without charge; also, the sign, mark, or signature denoting that a letter or other mail matter is to free of postage. I have said so much, that, if I had not a frank, I must burn my letter and begin again. Cowper. 
A member of one of the German tribes that in the fifth century overran and conquered Gaul, and established the kingdom of France. 
To draw together; to bind with a view to secure and strengthen, as a vessel by passing cables around it; to tighten; as a tackle by drawing the lines together. Tottem. 
A crowd, a rabble. [Obs.] ares. 
Iced; frozen; artificially cooled; as, wine frappé. -- n. 
A monk; also, a frater house. [R.] Shipley. Frater house, an apartament in a convent used as an eating room; a refectory; -- called also a fratery. 
In Germany, a woman; a married woman; a wife; -- as a title, equivalent to Mrs., Madam. 
An intentional perversion of truth for the purpose of obtaining some valuable thing or promise from another. 
A colorless crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and found in the bark of the ash (Fraxinus) and along with esculin in the bark of the horse-chestnut. It shows a delicate fluorescence in alkaline solutions; -- called also paviin. 
Affray; broil; contest; combat. Who began this bloody fray Shak. 
To frighten; to terrify; to alarm. I. Taylor. What frays ye, that were wont to comfort me affrayed Spenser. 
To bear the expense of; to defray. [Obs.] The charge of my most curious and costly ingredients frayed, I shall acknowledge myself amply satisfied. Massinger. 
To rub; to wear off, or wear into shreds, by rubbing; to fret, as cloth; as, a deer is said to fray her head. 
A fret or chafe, as in cloth; a place injured by rubbing. 
To variegate; to checker; to streak. [R.] Freaked with many a mingled hue. Thomson. 
A sudden causeless change or turn of the mind; a whim of fancy; a capricious prank; a vagary or caprice. She is restless and peevish, and sometimes in a freak will instantly change her habitation. Spectator. 
To checker; to diversify. [R. & Poet.] The painted windows, frecking gloom with glow. Lowell. 
Peace; -- a word used in composition, especially in proper names; as, Alfred; Frederic. 
Certain or honorable; the opposite of base; as, free service; free socage. Burrill. 
One who plunders or pillages without the authority of national warfare; a member of a predatory band; a pillager; a buccaneer; a sea robber. Bacon. 
In a free manner; without restraint or compulsion; abundantly; gratuitously. Of every tree of the garden thou mayst freely eat. Gen. ii. 16. Freely ye have received, freely give. Matt. x. 8. Freely they stood who stood, and fell who fell. Milton. Freely we serve Because we freely love. Milton. 
One who frees, or sets free. 
A frieze. [Obs.] 
The act of congealing, or the state of being congealed. [Colloq.] 
Frailty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A stranger. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Of or pertaining to France or its inhabitants. French bean (Bot.), the common kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). -- French berry (Bot.), the berry of a species of buckthorn (Rhamnus catharticus), which affords a saffron, green or purple pigment. -- French casement (Arch.) See French window, under Window. -- French chalk (Min.), a variety of granular talc; -- used for drawing lines on cloth, etc. See under Chalk. -- French cowslip (Bot.) The Primula Auricula. See Bear's-ear. -- French fake (Naut.), a mode of coiling a rope by running it backward and forward in parallel bends, so that it may run freely. -- French honeysuckle (Bot.) a plant of the genus Hedysarum (H. coronarium); -- called also garland honeysuckle. -- French horn, a metallic wind instrument, consisting of a long tube twisted into circular folds and gradually expanding from the mouthpiece to the end at which the sound issues; -- called in France cor de chasse. -- French leave, an informal, hasty, or secret departure; esp., the leaving a place without paying one's debts. -- French pie Etym: [French (here used in sense of "foreign") + pie a magpie (in allusion to its black and white color)] (Zoöl.), the European great spotted woodpecker (Dryobstes major); -- called also wood pie. -- French polish. (a) A preparation for the surface of woodwork, consisting of gums dissolved in alcohol, either shellac alone, or shellac with other gums added. (b) The glossy surface produced by the application of the above. -- French purple, a dyestuff obtained from lichens and used for coloring woolen and silken fabrics, without the aid of mordants. Ure. -- French red rouge. -- French rice, amelcorn. -- French roof (Arch.), a modified form of mansard roof having a nearly flat deck for the upper slope. -- French tub, a dyer's mixture of protochloride of tin and logwood; -- called also plum tub. Ure. -- French window. See under Window. 
To make French; to infect or imbue with the manners or tastes of the French; to Gallicize. Burke. 
A cheek stripe of color. 
Any violent agitation of the mind approaching to distraction; violent and temporary derangement of the mental faculties; madness; rage. All else is towering frenzy and distraction. Addison. The poet's eye in a fine frenzy rolling. Shak. 
Mad; frantic. [R.] They thought that some frenzy distemper had got into his head. Bunyan. 
To affect with frenzy; to drive to madness [R.] "Frenzying anguish." Southey. 
A friar. Chaucer. 
To paint in fresco, as walls. 
To refresh; to freshen. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
See 1st Frith. 
The worn sides of river banks, where ores, or stones containing them, accumulate by being washed down from the hills, and thus indicate to the miners the locality of the veins. 
To ornament with raised work; to variegate; to diversify. Whose skirt with gold was fretted all about. Spenser. Yon gray lines, That fret the clouds, are messengers of day. Shak. 
An ornament consisting of smmall fillets or slats intersecting each other or bent at right angles, as in classical designs, or at obilique angles, as often in Oriental art. His lady's cabinet is a adorned on the fret, ceiling, and chimney- piece with . . . carving. Evelyn. 
A saltire interlaced with a mascle. 
To furnish with frets, as an instrument of music. 
The worn side of the bank of a river. See 4th Fret, n., 4. 
A vitreous compound, used by potters in glazing, consisting of lime, silica, borax, lead, and soda. 
Adorned with fretwork. 
A strait, or arm of the sea. 
The daughter of Njörd, aud goddess of love and beauty; the Scandinavian Venus; -- in Teutonic myths confounded with Frigga, but in Scandinavian, distinct. [Written also Frea, Fraying, and Ereyja.] 
A brother or member of any religious order, but especially of one of the four mendicant orders, viz: (a) Minors, Gray Friars, or Franciscans. (b) Augustines. (c) Dominicans or Black Friars. (d) White Friars or Carmelites. See these names in the Vocabulary. 
Like a friar; pertaining to friars or to a convent. [Obs.] Camden. 
The act of breaking up or pulverizing. 
The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and preceding Saturday. 
To rub; to fray. [Obs.] Sterne. 
imp. & p. p. of Fry. 
To act as the friend of; to favor; to countenance; to befriend. [Obs.] Fortune friends the bold. Spenser. 
One who fries. 
Same as Friesic, n. 
A kind of coarse woolen cloth or stuff with a shaggy or tufted (friezed) nap on one side. "Robes of frieze." Goldsmith. 
To make a nap on (cloth); to friz. See Friz, v. t., 
To alarm suddenly; to shock by causing sudden fear; to terrify; to scare. Nor exile or danger can fright a brave spirit. Dryden. 
The cooling room of the Roman thermæ, furnished with a cold bath. 
To wrinkle; -- said of the gelatin film. 
To provide or decorate with a frill or frills; to turn back. in crimped plaits; as, to frill a cap. 
Furnished with a frill or frills. Frilled lizard (Zoöl.), a large Australian lizard (Chlamydosaurus Kingii) about three feet long, which has a large, erectile frill on each side of the neck. 
Flourishing; thriving; fresh; in good case; vigorous. [Obs.] "Frim pastures." Drayton. 
One of a number of light or dark bands, produced by the interference of light; a diffraction band; -- called also interference fringe. 
To adorn the edge of with a fringe or as with a fringe. Precipices fringed with grass. Bryant. Fringing reef. See Coral reefs, under Coral. 
Aborned with fringes. Shak. 
Lively; brisk; frolicsome; frisky. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
A frolic; a fit of wanton gayety; a gambol: a little playful skip or leap. Johnson. 
To leap, skip, dance, or gambol, in fronc and gayety. The frisking satyrs on the summits danced. Addison. 
Inclined to frisk; frolicsome; gay. He is too frisky for an old man. Jeffrey. 
To sell upon credit, as goods. [R.] Crabb. 
The material of which glass is made, after having been calcined or partly fused in a furnace, but before vitrification. It is a composition of silex and alkali, occasionally with other ingredients. Ure. 
To prepare by heat (the materials for making glass); to fuse partially. Ure. 
To fritter; -- with away. [R.] Ld. Lytton. 
A narrow arm of the sea; an estuary; the opening of a river into the sea; as, the Frith of Forth. 
Woody. [Obs.] Skelton. 
To act frivolously; to trifle. Kipling. -- Friv"ol*er (#), Friv"ol*ler, n. [All Colloq.] 
To soften and make of even thickness by rubbing, as with pumice stone or a blunt instrument. Frizzing machine. (a) (Fabrics) A machine for frizzing the surface of cloth. (b) (Wood Working) A bench with a revolving cutter head slightly protruding above its surface, for dressing boards. 
That which is frizzed; anything crisped or curled, as a wig; a frizzle. [Written also frizz.] He [Dr. Johnson], who saw in his glass how his wig became his face and head, might easily infer that a similar fullbottomed, well-curled friz of words would be no less becoming to his thoughts. Hare. 
See 1st Frieze. 
A movable furrowed piece of steel struck by the flint, to throw sparks into the pan, in an early form of flintlock. Knight. 
See Friz, v. t. & n. 
From; away; back or backward; -- now used only in oppositionto the word to, in the phrase to and fro, that is, to and from. See To and fro under To. Millon. 
From. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Clothed in a frock. 
A dirty woman; a slattern; a frow. [Obs.] "Raging frantic froes." Draylon. 
An iron cleaver or splitting tool; a frow. [U. S.] Bartlett. 
1. (Zoöl.) An amphibious animal of the genus Rana and related genera, of many species. Frogs swim rapidly, and take long leaps on land. Many of the species utter loud notes in the springtime. 
To ornament or fasten (a coat, etc.) with trogs. See Frog, n., 4. 
Abounding in frogs. Sherwood. 
A kind of pancake. See 1st Fraise. [Written also fraise.] 
Full of levity; dancing, playing, or frisking about; full of pranks; frolicsome; gay; merry. The frolic wind that breathes the spring. Milton. The gay, the frolic, and the loud. Waller. 
To play wild pranks; to play tricks of levity, mirth, and gayety; to indulge in frolicsome play; to sport. Hither, come hither, and frolic and play. Tennyson. 
Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the aritithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. Experience from the time past to the time present. Bacon. The song began from Jove. Drpden. From high Mæonia's rocky shores I came. Addison. If the wind blow any way from shore. Shak. 
The organ formed by the combination or union into one body of stem and leaf, and often bearing the fructification; as, the frond of a fern or of a lichen or seaweed; also, the peculiar leaf of a palm tree. 
A political party in France, during the minority of Louis XIV., who opposed the government, and made war upon the court party. 
The forehead; the part of the cranium between the orbits and the vertex. 
Of or relating to the front or forward part; having a position in front; foremost; as, a front view. 
To have or turn the face or front in any direction; as, the house fronts toward the east. 
Frostily. [Obs.] The parching air Burns frore, and cold performs the effect of fire. Milton. 
Frozen. [Obs.] Well nigh frorn I feel. Spenser. 
The golden plover. 
To rub or wear by rubbing; to chafe. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To throw up or out spume, foam, or bubbles; to foam; as beer froths; a horse froths. 
A rustling, esp. the rustling of a woman's dress. 
Fetid, musty; rank; disordered and offensive to the smell or sight; slovenly; dingy. See Frowzy. "Petticoats in frouzy heaps." Swift. 
A cleaving tool with handle at right angles to the blade, for splitting cask staves and shingles from the block; a frower. 
Brittle. [Obs.] Evelyn. 
A tool. See 2d Frow. Tusser. 
Working smoothly, or without splitting; -- said of timber. 
To repress or repel by expressing displeasure or disapproval; to rebuke with a look; as, frown the impudent fellow into silence. 
In a frowning manner. 
Frowning; scowling. [Obs.] Her frowny mother's ragged shoulder. Sir F. Palgrave. 
Musty. rancid; as, frowy butter. "Frowy feed." Spenser 
Slovenly; unkempt; untidy; frouzy. "With head all frowzy." Spenser. The frowzy soldiers' wives hanging out clothes. W. D. Howells. 
imp. of Freeze. 
A state of being frozen. 
Thriftily; prudently. 
The pulpy, edible seed vessels of certain plants, especially those grown on branches above ground, as apples, oranges, grapes, melons, berries, etc. See 3. 
To bear fruit. Chesterfield. 
Having the odor, taste, or appearance of fruit; also, fruitful. Dickens. 
To insult; to flout; to mock; to snub. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
A mocker. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 
To batter; to break in pieces. [Obs.] I like thine armor well; I'll frush it and unlock the rivets all. Shak. 
Easily broken; brittle; crisp. 
Noise; clatter; crash. [R.] Southey. 
The frog of a horse's foot. 
A plant having a woody, durable stem, but less than a tree; a shrub. 
To cook in a pan or on a griddle (esp. with the use of fat, butter, or olive oil) by heating over a fire; to cook in boiling lard or fat; as, to fry fish; to fry doughnuts. 
The young of any fish. 
The process denoted by the verb fry. Frying pan, an iron pan with a long handle, used for frying meat. vegetables, etc. 
Same as Fumage. 
Same as Feuar. 
To put off by trickery; to cheat. [Obs.] I have been fubbed off, and fubbed off, and fabbed off, from this day to that day. Shak. 
A student of the first year. 
A plant, whether recent or fossil, which resembles a seaweed. See Fucoid, a. 
A genus of tough, leathery seaweeds, usually of a dull brownish green color; rockweed. 
See Fodder, a weight. 
To make foolish by drink; to cause to become intoxicated. [Colloq.] I am too fuddled to take care to observe your orders. Steele. 
To drink to excess. [Colloq.] 
A made-up story; stuff; nonsense; humbug; -- often an exclamation of contempt. 
A tool for ornamenting the edge of a sole. 
One who, or that which, supplies fuel. [R.] [Written also fueller.] Donne. 
To puff. [Prov. Eng. A Local, U. S.] Halliwel. 
Light; puffy. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U. S.] 
A fugue. 
Banishment. [Obs.] Milton. 
in the gugue style, but not strictly like a fugue. -- n. 
An exclamation of disgust; foh; faugh. Dryden. 
To maneuver; to move hither and thither. [Colloq.] Wooden arms with elbow joints jerking and fugling in the air. Carlyle. 
A polyphonic composition, developed from a given theme or themes, according to strict contrapuntal rules. The theme is first given out by one voice or part, and then, while that pursues its way, it is repeated by another at the interval of a fifth or fourth, and so on, until all the parts have answered one by one, continuing their several melodies and interweaving them in one complex progressive whole, in which the theme is often lost and reappears. All parts of the scheme are eternally chasing each other, like the parts of a fugue. Jer. Taylor. 
Same as Fulahs. 
See Fulcrum. 
Shining; glittering; dazzling. [R.] Pope. 
Dazzling brightness; splendor. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 
A false die. [Cant] [Written also fullam.] Shak. 
Complete measure; utmost extent; the highest state or degree. The swan's-down feather, That stands upon the swell at full of tide. Shak. Full of the moon, the time of full moon. 
Quite; to the same degree; without abatement or diminution; with the whole force or effect; thoroughly; completely; exactly; entirely. The pawn I proffer shall be full as good. Dryden. The diapason closing full in man. Dryden. Full in the center of the sacred wood. Addison. 
To become full or wholly illuminated; as, the moon fulls at midnight. 
To thicken by moistening, heating, and pressing, as cloth; to mill; to make compact; to scour, cleanse, and thicken in a mill. 
To become fulled or thickened; as, this material fulls well. 
A false die. See Fulham. 
One whose occupation is to full cloth. Fuller's earth, a variety of clay, used in scouring and cleansing cloth, to imbibe grease. -- Fuller's herb (Bot.), the soapwort (Saponaria officinalis), formerly used to remove stains from cloth. -- Fuller's thistle or weed (Bot.), the teasel (Dipsacus fullonum) whose burs are used by fullers in dressing cloth. See Teasel. 
A die; a half-round set hammer, used for forming grooves and spreading iron; -- called also a creaser. 
To form a groove or channel in, by a fuller or set hammer; as, to fuller a bayonet. 
In a full manner or degree; completely; entirely; without lack or defect; adequately; satisfactorily; as, to be fully persuaded of the truth of a proposition. Fully committed (Law), committed to prison for trial, in distinction from being detained for examination. 
One of several species of sea birds, of the family procellariidæ, allied to the albatrosses and petrels. Among the well- known species are the arctic fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) (called also fulmar petrel, malduck, and mollemock), and the giant fulmar (Ossifraga gigantea). 
Fulvous. [R.] Dr. H. More. 
To play upon a fiddle. [Obs.] Follow me, and fum as you go. B. Jonson. 
Hearth money. Fumage, or fuage, vulgarly called smoke farthings. Blackstone. 
To handle or manage awkwardly; to crowd or tumble together. Shak. 
Oak given a weathered appearance by exposure in an air-tight compartment to fumes of ammonia from uncorked cans, being first given a coat of filler. 
See Femerell. 
The dung of deer. B. Jonson. 
Smoky; vaporous. Sir T. Broune. 
To subject to the action of smoke. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
Smokily; with fume. 
Producing fumes, or vapors. Cadet's fuming liquid (Chem.), alkarsin. -- Fuming liquor of Libsvius (Old Chem.), stannic chloride; the chloride of tin, SnCl4, forming a colorless, mobile liquid which fumes in the air. Mixed with water it solidifies to the so-called butter of tin. -- Fuming sulphuric acid. (Chem.) Same as Disulphuric acid, uder Disulphuric. 
Smoky; hot; choleric. 
Smoky; hot; choleric. 
A hinny. 
Producing fumes; fumous. "Drowned in fumy wine." H. Brooke. 
Sport; merriment; frolicsome amusement. "Oddity, frolic, and fun." Goldsmith. To make fan of, to hold up to, or turn into, ridicule. 
The stock of a national debt; public securities; evidences (stocks or bonds) of money lent to government, for which interest is paid at prescribed intervals; -- called also public funds. 
Capable of being funded, or converted into a fund; convertible into bonds. 
One who has money invested in the public funds. J. S. Mill. 
The bottom or base of any hollow organ; as, the fundus of the bladder; the fundus of the eye. 
Lamentable; doleful. [R.] "Funest and direful deaths." Coleridge. A forerunner of something very funest. Evelyn. 
Of or pertaining to fungi. 
A blockhead; a dolt; a fool. [Obs.] Burton. 
See Fungus. 
A genus of simple, stony corals; -- so called because they are usually flat and circular, with radiating plates, like the gills of a mushroom. Some of them are eighteen inches in diameter. 
Pertaining to, or obtained from, mushrooms; as, fungic acid. 
A name formerly given to cellulose found in certain fungi and mushrooms. 
Any one of the Fungi, a large and very complex group of thallophytes of low organization, -- the molds, mildews, rusts, smuts, mushrooms, toadstools, puff balls, and the allies of each. 
Funicular. 
A cord; specifically, the umbilical cord or navel string. 
An offensive smell; a stench. [Low] 
To envelop with an offensive smell or smoke. [Obs.] King. 
A shrinking back through fear. [Colloq.] "The horrid panic, or funk (as the men of Eton call it)." De Quincey. 
Pertaining to, or characterized by, great fear, or funking. [Colloq. Eng.] 
Having the form of a funnel, or tunnel; that is, expanding gradually from the bottom upward, as the corolla of some flowers; infundibuliform. 
Droll; comical; amusing; laughable. Funny bone. See crazy bone, under Crazy. 
A clinkerbuit, narrow boat for sculling. [Eng.] 
Articles of clothing made of fur; as, a set of furs for a lady (a collar, tippet, or cape, muff, etc.). Wrapped up in my furs. Lady M. W. Montagu. 
Of or pertaining to furs; bearing or made of fur; as, a fur cap; the fur trade. Fur seal (Zoöl.) one of several species of seals of the genera Callorhinus and Arclocephalus, inhabiting the North Pacific and the Antarctic oceans. They have a coat of fine and soft fur which is highly prized. The northern fur seal (Callorhinus ursinus) breeds in vast numbers on the Prybilov Islands, off the coast of Alaska; -- called also sea bear. 
Given to theft; thievish. [Obs.] 
To draw up into a bundle; to roll up. [Ods.] 
Scurf; dandruff. 
Furious; raging; tormenting. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Fury, 3. 
A yellow, crystalline substance, (C4H3O)2.C2O2, obtained by the oxidation of furoin. [Written also furil.] 
To draw up or gather into close compass; to wrap or roll, as a sail, close to the yard, stay, or mast, or, as a flag, close to or around its staff, securing it there by a gasket or line. Totten. 
A colorless, crystalline substance, C10H8O4, from furfurol. 
Excitement; commotion; enthusiasm. 
Furrowed. [R.] Tennyson. 
To a greater distance; in addition; moreover. See Farther. Carries us, I know not how much further, into familiar company. M. Arnold. They sdvanced us far as Eleusis and Thria; but no further. Jowett (Thucyd. ). Further off, not so near; apart by a greater distance. 
A thief. [Obs.] Have an eye to your plate, for there be furies. J. Fleteher. 
A thorny evergreen shrub (Ulex Europæus), with beautiful yellow flowers, very common upon the plains and hills of Great Britain; -- called also gorse, and whin. The dwarf furze is Ulex nanus. 
Furzy; gorsy. [Obs.] Holland. 
bounding in, or overgrown with, furze; characterized by furze. Gay. 
A molding generally placed under the echinus or quarter round of capitals in the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders of architecture. 
A brown, nitrogenous pigment contained in the retinal epithelium; a variety of melanin. 
A tube or casing filled with combustible matter, by means of which a charge of powder is ignited, as in blasting; -- called also fuzee. See Fuze. Fuse hole, the hole in a shell prepared for the reception of the fuse. Farrow. 
A small packet of explosive material with wire appendages allowing it to be conveniently attached to a railroad track. It will explode with a loud report when run over by a train, and is used to provide a warning signal to the engineer. 
The track of a buck. Ainsworth. 
A hot, acrid, oily liquid, accompanying many alcoholic liquors (as potato whisky, corn whisky, etc.), as an undesirable ingredient, and consisting of several of the higher alcohols and compound ethers, but particularly of amyl alcohol; hence, specifically applied to amyl alcohol. 
A light kind of flintlock musket, formerly in use. 
A bearing of a rhomboidal figure; -- named from its shape, which resembles that of a spindle. 
Same as Fusil, a. 
The union, or binding together, of adjacent parts or tissues. 
Handy; reat; handsome; notable. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To be overbusy or unduly anxious about trifles; to make a bustle or ado. Sir W. Scott. 
Making a fuss; disposed to make an unnecessary ado about trifles; overnice; fidgety. Not at all fussy about his personal appearance. R. G. White. 
The shaft of a column, or trunk of pilaster. Gwilt. 
A strong, musty smell; mustiness. 
To become moldy; to smell ill. [Obs.] 
Moldy; ill-smelling. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
The wood of the Rhus Cptinus or Venice sumach, a shrub of Southern Europe, which yields a fine orange color, which, however, is not durable without a mordant. Ure. 
The wood of the Maclura tinctoria, a tree growing in the West Indies, used in dyeing yellow; -- called also old fustic. [Written also fustoc.] 
Act of fusing; fusion. [R.] 
In a futile manner. 
That is to be or come hereafter; that will exist at any time after the present; as, the next moment is future, to the present. Future tense (Gram.), the tense or modification of a verb which expresses a future act or event. 
A future tense. To deal in futures, to speculate on the future values of merchandise or stocks. [Brokers' cant] 
A tube, filled with combustible matter, for exploding a shell, etc. See Fuse, n. Chemical fuze, a fuze in which substances separated until required for action are then brought into contact, and uniting chemically, produce explosion. -- Concussion fuze, a fuze ignited by the striking of the projectile. -- Electric fuze, a fuze which is ignited by heat or a spark produced by an electric current. -- Friction fuze, a fuze which is ignited by the heat evolved by friction. -- Percussion fuze, a fuze in which the ignition is produced by a blow on some fulminating compound. -- Time fuze, a fuze adapted, either by its length or by the character of its composition, to burn a certain time before producing an explosion. 
To make drunk. [Obs.] Wood. 
Fine, light particles or fibers; loose, volatile matter. Fuzz ball, a kind of fungus or mushroom, which, when pressed, bursts and scatters a fine dust; a puffball. 
To fly off in minute particles. 
To make drunk; to intoxicate; to fuddle. [Obs.] Burton. 
A suffix signifying to make, to form into, etc.; as, acetify, amplify, dandify, Frenchify, etc. 
A long bag net distended by hoops, into which fish can pass easily, without being able to return; -- called also fyke net. Cozzens. 
A rebated cross, formerly used as a secret emblem, and a common ornament. It is also called gammadion, and swastika. 
See Fit a song. [Archaic] 
The hook on the end of an eccentric rod opposite the strap. See. Illust. of Eccentric. 
The mouth; hence, idle prate; chatter; unmeaning talk; loquaciousness. [Colloq.] Gift of gab, facility of expression. [Colloq.] 
A kind of coarse cloth for packing goods. [Obs.] 
One who gabbles; a prater. 
A name originally given by the Italians to a kind of serpentine, later to the rock called euphotide, and now generally used for a coarsely crystalline, igneous rock consisting of lamellar pyroxene (diallage) and labradorite, with sometimes chrysolite (olivine gabbro). 
A rent, service, tribute, custom, tax, impost, or duty; an excise. Burrill. He enables St. Peter to pay his gabel by the ministry of a fish. Jer. Taylor. 
A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
A hollow cylinder of wickerwork, like a basket without a bottom. Gabions are made of various sizes, and filled with earth in building fieldworks to shelter men from an enemy's fire. 
A cable. [Archaic] Chapman. 
A small gable, or gable-shaped canopy, formed over a tabernacle, niche, etc. 
A simpleton; a dunce; a lout. [Colloq.] 
To walk about; to rove or go about, without purpose; hence, to run wild; to be uncontrolled. "The gadding vine." Milton. Why gaddest thou about so much to change thy way Jer. ii. 36. 
The gadfly. 
One who roves about idly, a rambling gossip. 
To gather. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any dipterous insect of the genus Oestrus, and allied genera of botflies. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus); -- applied to an acid obtained from cod-liver oil, viz., gadic acid. 
A gadsman. 
Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidæ) which includes the cod, haddock, and hake. -- n. 
A yellow or brown amorphous substance, of indifferent nature, found in cod-liver oil. 
A Celt or the Celts of the Scotch Highlands or of Ireland; now esp., a Scotch Highlander of Celtic origin. 
Of or pertaining to the Gael, esp. to the Celtic Highlanders of Scotland; as, the Gaelic language. 
The language of the Gaels, esp. of the Highlanders of Scotland. It is a branch of the Celtic. 
The spar upon which the upper edge of a fore-and-aft sail is extended. 
To strike with a gaff or barbed spear; to secure by means of a gaff; as, to gaff a salmon. 
A small triangular sail having its foot extended upon the gaff and its luff upon the topmast. 
Agate. [Obs.] Fuller. 
A variety of plum; as, the greengage; also, the blue gage, frost gage, golden gage, etc., having more or less likeness to the greengage. See Greengage. 
A measure or standart. See Gauge, n. 
To measure. See Gauge, v. t. You shall not gage me By what we do to-night. Shak. 
A measurer. See Gauger. 
A piece of iron imbedded in the sand of a mold to keep the sand in place. 
To make a noise like a goose; to cackle. Bacon. 
A flock of wild geese. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Pertaining to hypogeic acid; -- applied to an acid obtained from hypogeic acid. 
Same as Gayety. 
A jailer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Merrily; showily. See gaily. 
A square or beveled notch cut out of a girder, binding joist, or other timber which supports a floor beam, so as to receive the end of the floor beam. 
Convenient; suitable; direct; near; handy; dexterous; easy; profitable; cheap; respectable. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
To have or receive advantage or profit; to acquire gain; to grow rich; to advance in interest, health, or happiness; to make progress; as, the sick man gains daily. Thou hast greedily gained of thy neighbors by extortion. Ezek. xxii. 12. Gaining twist, in rifled firearms, a twist of the grooves, which increases regularly from the breech to the muzzle. To gain on or upon. (a) To encroach on; as, the ocean gains on the land. (b) To obtain influence with. (c) To win ground upon; to move faster than, as in a race or contest. (d) To get the better of; to have the advantage of. The English have not only gained upon the Venetians in the Levant, but have their cloth in Venice itself. Addison. My good behavior had so far gained on the emperor, that I began to conceive hopes of liberty. Swift. 
One who gains. Shak. 
Handily; readily; dexterously; advantageously. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
Having (such) a gait; -- used in composition; as, slow-gaited; heavy-gaited. 
To dress with gaiters. 
Pomp, show, or festivity. Macaulay. Gala day, a day of mirth and festivity; a holiday. 
See Galoche. Spenser. 
A genus of African lemurs, including numerous species. 
The Milky Way; that luminous tract, or belt, which is seen at night stretching across the heavens, and which is composed of innumerable stars, so distant and blended as to be distinguishable only with the telescope. The term has recently been used for remote clusters of stars. Nichol. 
The general outward form of any solid object, as of a column or a vase. 
To sale, or sail fast. 
A song or story. [Obs.] Toone. 
To sing. [Obs.] "Can he cry and gale." Court of Love. 
A plant of the genus Myrica, growing in wet places, and strongly resembling the bayberry. The sweet gale (Myrica Gale) is found both in Europe and in America. 
The payment of a rent or annuity. [Eng.] Mozley & W. Gale day, the day on which rent or interest is due. 
The upper lip or helmet-shaped part of a labiate flower. 
See Galleass. 
That division of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sharks. 
A remedy or antidose for poison; theriaca. [Obs.] Parr. 
An impure resin of turpentine, hardened on the outside of pine trees by the spontaneous evaporation of its essential oil. When purified, it is called yellow pitch, white pitch, or Burgundy pitch. 
The bitter, alkaline, viscid fluid found in the gall bladder, beneath the liver. It consists of the secretion of the liver, or bile, mixed with that of the mucous membrane of the gall bladder. 
An excrescence of any form produced on any part of a plant by insects or their larvae. They are most commonly caused by small Hymenoptera and Diptera which puncture the bark and lay their eggs in the wounds. The larvae live within the galls. Some galls are due to aphids, mites, etc. See Gallnut. 
To impregnate with a decoction of gallnuts. Ure. 
To scoff; to jeer. [R.] Shak. 
A wound in the skin made by rubbing. 
A vessel propelled by oars, whether having masts and sails or not; as: (a) A large vessel for war and national purposes; -- common in the Middle Ages, and down to the 17th century. (b) A name given by analogy to the Greek, Roman, and other ancient vessels propelled by oars. (c) A light, open boat used on the Thames by customhouse officers, press gangs, and also for pleasure. (d) One of the small boats carried by a man-of-war. 
Pertaining to, or containing, gallium. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, galls, nutgalls, and the like. Gallic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, very widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, being found in the free state in galls, tea, etc., and produced artificially. It is a white, crystalline substance, C6H2(HO)3.CO2H, with an astringent taste, and is a strong reducing agent, as employed in photography. It is usually prepared from tannin, and both give a dark color with iron salts, forming tannate and gallate of iron, which are the essential ingredients of common black ink. 
Pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallican. 
A substance obtained by the reduction of galleïn. 
A measure of capacity, containing four quarts; -- used, for the most part, in liquid measure, but sometimes in dry measure. 
To cause to gallop. 
A mode of running by a quadruped, particularly by a horse, by lifting alternately the fore feet and the hind feet, in successive leaps or bounds. Hand gallop, a slow or gentle gallop. 
To fright or terrify. See Gally, v. t. [Obs.] Shak. 
To frighten; to worry. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] T. Brown. 
Like gall; bitter as gall. Cranmer. 
See Galley, n., 4. 
A noisy, swaggering, or worthless fellow; a rowdy. [Slang, U. S.] 
A kind of lively dance, in 2-4 time; also, the music to the dance. 
Plenty; abundance; in abundance. 
Same as Galoche. 
To gape,; to yawn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Gault. 
Gallows. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To have a gam with; to pay a visit to, esp. among whalers at sea. 
A viola da gamba. 
Any bird of the genuis Totanus. See Tattler. 
A mode of opening the game, in which a pawn is sacrificed to gain an attacking position. 
To play or game for money or other stake. 
To lose or squander by gaming; -- usually with away. "Bankrupts or sots who have gambled or slept away their estates." Ames. 
A skipping or leaping about in frolic; a hop; a sportive prank. Dryden. 
To dance and skip about in sport; to frisk; to skip; to play in frolic, like boys or lambs. 
Crooked; lame; as, a game leg. [Colloq.] 
In some games, a point credited on the score to the player whose cards counts up the highest. 
The male game fowl. 
In a plucky manner; spiritedly. 
A sexual cell or germ cell; a conjugating cell which unites with another of like or unlike character to form a new individual. In Bot., gamete designates esp. the similar sex cells of the lower thallophytes which unite by conjugation, forming a zygospore. The gametes of higher plants are of two sorts, sperm (male) and egg (female); their union is called fertilization, and the resulting zygote an oöspore. In Zoöl., gamete is most commonly used of the sexual cells of certain Protozoa, though also extended to the germ cells of higher forms. 
Pertaining to, or resulting from, sexual connection; formed by the union of the male and female elements. 
A neglected and untrained city boy; a young street Arab. In Japan, the gamins run after you, and say, 'Look at the Chinaman.' L. Oliphant. 
The act or practice of playing games for stakes or wagers; gambling. 
The third letter (G) of the Greek alphabet. 
An old wife; an old woman; -- correlative of gaffer, an old man. 
The buttock or tight of a hog, salted and smoked or dried; the lower end of a flitch. Goldsmith. 
To make bacon of; to salt and dry in smoke. 
To fasten (a bowsprit) to the stem of a vessel by lashings of rope or chain, or by a band of iron. Totten. 
A large umbrella; --said to allude to Mrs. Gamp's umbrella, in Dickens's "Martin Chuzzlewit." 
The scale. 
Having the flavor of game, esp. of game kept uncooked till near the condition of tainting; high-flavored. 
Began; commenced. 
To drop from a high place upon sharp stakes or hooks, as the Turks dropped malefactors, by way of punishment. Ganching, which is to let fall from on high upon hooks, and there to hang until they die. Sandys. 
The male of any species of goose. 
To yawn; to gape. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The Hindoo god of wisdom or prudence. 
To go; to walk. 
A set; all required for an outfit; as, a new gang of stays. 
One who oversees a gang of workmen. [R.] Mayhew. 
The mineral or earthy substance associated with metallic ore. 
A kind of brittle limestone. [Prov. Eng.] Kirwan. 
The dried hemp plant, used in India for smoking. It is extremely narcotic and intoxicating. 
One of several species of sea birds of the genus Sula, allied to the pelicans. 
Of or pertaining to Ganoidei. -- n. One of the Ganoidei. Ganoid scale (Zoöl.), one kind of scales of the ganoid fishes, composed of an inner layer of bone, and an outer layer of shining enamel. They are often so arranged as to form a coat of mail. 
Same as Ganza. Bp. Hall. 
See Gauntree. 
A kind of wild goose, by a flock of which a virtuoso was fabled to be carried to the lunar world. [Also gansa.] Johnson. 
A place of confinement, especially for minor offenses or provisional imprisonment; a jail. [Preferably, and in the United States usually, written jail.] Commission of general gaol delivery, an authority conferred upon judges and others included in it, for trying and delivering every prisoner in jail when the judges, upon their circuit, arrive at the place for holding court, and for discharging any whom the grand jury fail to indict. [Eng.] -- Gaol delivery. (Law) See Jail delivery, under Jail. 
The keeper of a jail. See Jailer. 
An opening in anything made by breaking or parting; as, a gap in a fence; an opening for a passage or entrance; an opening which implies a breach or defect; a vacant space or time; a hiatus; a mountain pass. Miseries ensued by the opening of that gap. Knolles. It would make a great gap in your own honor. Shak. Gap lathe (Mach.), a turning lathe with a deep notch in the bed to admit of turning a short object of large diameter. -- To stand in the gap, to expose one's self for the protection of something; to make defense against any assailing danger; to take the place of a fallen defender or supporter. -- To stop a gap, to secure a weak point; to repair a defect. 
The width of the mouth when opened, as of birds, fishes, etc. GAPES; THE GAPES The gapes. (a) A fit of yawning. (b) A disease of young poultry and other birds, attended with much gaping. It is caused by a parasitic nematode worm (Syngamus trachealis), in the windpipe, which obstructs the breathing. See Gapeworm. 
Any strange sight. Wright. 
To cause; to make. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser. 
To keep in a garage. [Colloq.] 
A sheaf of grain (wheat, unless otherwise specified). 
To clothe; array; deck. These black dog-Dons Garb themselves bravely. Tennyson. 
Dressed; habited; clad. 
Same as Garboard. 
Anything sifted, or from which the coarse parts have been taken. [Obs.] 
Impurities separated from spices, drugs, etc.; -- also called garblings. 
A boy; fellow; esp., a serving boy or man; a waiter; -- in Eng. chiefly applied to French waiters. 
Garden. [Obs.] "Trees of the gard." F. Beaumont. 
See Guard. 
To lay out or cultivate a garden; to labor in a garden; to practice horticulture. 
To cultivate as a garden. 
A European cyprinoid fish; the id. 
Coarse wool on the legs of sheep. Blount. 
See Poke. 
A distemper in geese, affecting the head. 
See Gargoyle. 
A liquid, as water or some medicated preparation, used to cleanse the mouth and throat, especially for a medical effect. 
A distemper in swine; garget. Mortimer. 
To deck with a garland. B. Jonson. 
A plant of the genus Allium (A. sativum is the cultivated variety), having a bulbous root, a very strong smell, and an acrid, pungent taste. Each root is composed of several lesser bulbs, called cloves of garlic, inclosed in a common membranous coat, and easily separable. 
A granary; a building or place where grain is stored for preservation. 
To gather for preservation; to store, as in a granary; to treasure. Shak. 
A mineral having many varieties differing in color and in their constituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric), and conforming to the same general chemical formula. The commonest color is red, the luster is vitreous, and the hardness greater than that of quartz. The dodecahedron and trapezohedron are the common forms. 
A tackle for hoisting cargo in our out. Clew garnet. See under Clew. 
Pertaining to, or resembling, garum. Sir T. Browne. 
See Galloway. [Scot. garron or gerron. Jamieson.] 
Protected by turrets. [Obs.] R. Carew. 
Same as Garran. [Scot.] 
A stick or small wooden cylinder used for tightening a bandage, in order to compress the arteries of a limb. 
The European golden-eye. 
Same as Bendlet. Garter fish (Zoöl.), a fish of the genus Lepidopus, having a long, flat body, like the blade of a sword; the scabbard fish. -- Garter king-at-arms, the chief of the official heralds of England, king-at-arms to the Order of the Garter; -- often abbreviated to Garter. -- Garter snake (Zoöl.), one of several harmless American snakes of the genus Eutænia, of several species (esp. E. saurita and E. sirtalis); one of the striped snakes; -- so called from its conspicuous stripes of color. 
The simplest stitch in knitting. 
A hoop or band. [Prov. Eng.] 
A sauce made of small fish. It was prized by the ancients. 
The spart; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A chandelier arranged to burn gas. 
Of or pertaining to Gascony, in France, or to the Gascons; also, braggart; swaggering. -- n. 
To make a gash, or long, deep incision in; -- applied chiefly to incisions in flesh. Grievously gashed or gored to death. Hayward. 
A deep and long cut; an incision of considerable length and depth, particularly in flesh. 
To convert into gas, or an aëriform fluid, as by the application of heat, or by chemical processes. 
To become gas; to pass from a liquid to a gaseous state. Scientific American. 
A line or band used to lash a furled sail securely. Sea gaskets are common lines; harbor gaskets are plaited and decorated lines or bands. Called also casket. 
To emit or utter with gasps; -- with forth, out, away, etc. And with short sobs he gasps away his breath. Dryden. 
The act of opening the mouth convulsively to catch the breath; a labored respiration; a painful catching of the breath. At the last gasp, at the point of death. Addison. 
Full of gas; like gas. Hence: [Colloq.] Inflated; full of boastful or insincere talk. 
To make aghast; to frighten; to terrify. See Aghast. [Obs.] Chaucer. Shak. 
To gast. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
imp. of Get. [Obs.] 
Plaster as used in Persian architecture and decorative art. 
The places which command the entrances or access; hence, place of vantage; power; might. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Matt. xvi. 18. 
Having gates. Young. 
To bring together, or nearer together, in masonry, as where the width of a fireplace is rapidly diminished to the width of the flue, or the like. 
The inclination forward of the axle journals to keep the wheels from working outward. 
Winding; twisted; warped; -- applied to curves and surfaces. 
On of the native inhabitants of the pampas, of Spanish-American descent. They live mostly by rearing cattle. 
To sport or keep festival. [Obs.] "Gauding with his familiars. " [Obs.] Sir T. North. 
To bedeck gaudily; to decorate with gauds or showy trinkets or colors; to paint. [Obs.] "Nicely gauded cheeks." Shak. 
One of the large beads in the rosary at which the paternoster is recited. [Obs.] Gower. 
A feast or festival; -- called also gaud-day and gaudy day. [Oxford Univ.] Conybeare. 
To measure the dimensions of, or to test the accuracy of the form of, as of a part of a gunlock. The vanes nicely gauged on each side. Derham. 
Any instrument for ascertaining or regulating the dimensions or forms of things; a templet or template; as, a button maker's gauge. 
Tested or measured by, or conformed to, a gauge. Gauged brick, brick molded, rubbed, or cut to an exact size and shape, for arches or ornamental work. -- Gauged mortar. See Gauge stuff, under Gauge, n. 
One who gauges; an officer whose business it is to ascertain the contents of casks. 
Pertaining to ancient France, or Gaul; Gallic. [R.] 
A series of beds of clay and marl in the South of England, between the upper and lower greensand of the Cretaceous period. 
Attenuated, as with fasting or suffering; lean; meager; pinched and grim. "The gaunt mastiff." Pope. A mysterious but visible pestilence, striding gaunt and fleshless across our land. Nichols. 
An East Indian species of wild cattle (Bibos gauris), of large size and an untamable disposition. [Spelt also gour.] 
To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The C.G.S. unit of density of magnetic field, equal to a field of one line of force per square centimeter, being thus adopted as an international unit at Paris in 1900; sometimes used as a unit of intensity of magnetic field. It was previously suggested as a unit of magnetomotive force. 
A very thin, slight, transparent stuff, generally of silk; also, any fabric resembling silk gauze; as, wire gauze; cotton gauze. Gauze dresser, one employed in stiffening gauze. 
Having the qualities of gauze; thin; light; as, gauze merino underclothing. 
Pertaining to, or resembling, gauze; thin and slight as gauze. 
Forced feeding (as of poultry or infants) by means of a tube passed through the mouth down to the stomach. 
imp. of Give. 
A gable. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A small heap of grain, not tied up into a bundle. Wright. 
Tribute; toll; custom. [Obs.] See Gabel. Cowell. 
The division of birds which includes the gulls and terns. 
A large Asiatic crocodilian (Gavialis Gangeticus); -- called also nako, and Gangetic crocodile. 
A kind of difficult dance; a dance tune, the air of which has two brisk and lively, yet dignified, strains in common time, each played twice over. [Written also gavotte.] 
A baby; a dunce. [Prov. Eng.] 
To act like a gawky. 
Foolish and awkward; clumsy; clownish; as, gawky behavior. -- n. A fellow who is awkward from being overgrown, or from stupidity, a gawk. 
A small tub or lading vessel. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson. 
An ornament [Obs.] L'Estrange. 
A Southern Asiatic species of wild cattle (Bibos frontalis). 
The process of removing moisture from the blast of an iron blast furnace by reducing its temperature so far that it will not remain suspended as vapor in the blast current, but will be deposited as snow in the cooling apparatus. The resultant uniformly dehydrated blast effects great economy in fuel consumption, and promotes regularity of furnace operation, and certainty of furnace control. 
To avail. [Obs.] 
The dogwood tree. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To fixx the eyes in a steady and earnest look; to look with eagerness or curiosity, as in admiration, astonishment, or with studious attention. Why stand ye gazing up into heaven Acts i. 11. 
To view with attention; to gaze on . [R.] And gazed a while the ample sky. Milton. 
A summerhouse so situated as to command an extensive prospect. [Colloq.] 
The black currant; also, the wild plum. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Gazelle. 
One who gazes. 
A Venetian coin, worth about three English farthings, or one and a half cents. [Obs.] 
One of the pieces of sod used to line or cover parapets and the faces of earthworks. 
To congeal. [Obs. or Scot.] 
A species of cherry tree common in Europe (Prunus avium); also, the fruit, which is usually small and dark in color. 
See 1st Jeer (b). 
To provide with gearing. Double geared, driven through twofold compound gearing, to increase the force or speed; -- said of a machine. 
To be in, or come into, gear. 
Rare; wonderful. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The channel or spout through which molten metal runs into a mold in casting. [Written also git, gate.] 
To jeer; to show contempt. Sir W. Scott. 
Any lizard of the family Geckonidæ. The geckoes are small, carnivorous, mostly nocturnal animals with large eyes and vertical, elliptical pupils. Their toes are generally expanded, and furnished with adhesive disks, by which they can run over walls and ceilings. They are numerous in warm countries, and a few species are found in Europe and the United States. See Wall gecko, Fanfoot. 
To turn to the off side, or from the driver (i.e., in the United States, to the right side); -- said of cattle, or a team; used most frequently in the imperative, often with off, by drivers of oxen, in directing their teams, and opposed to haw, or hoi. [Written also jee.] 
To cause (a team) to turn to the off side, or from the driver. [Written also jee.] 
pl. of Goose. 
Alluvial matter on the surface of land, not of recent origin. R. Jameson. 
Jet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The original native name for the ancient Ethiopic language or people. See Ethiopic. 
A queer old fellow; an old chap; an old woman. [Contemptuous, Slang or Dial.] 
Pertaining to, or derived from, earthy or vegetable mold. Geic acid. (Chem.) See Humin. 
See Humin. 
A Japanese singing and dancing girl. 
A baboon (Gelada Ruppelli) of Abyssinia, remarkable for the length of the hair on the neck and shoulders of the adult male. 
Money; tribute; compensation; ransom.[Obs.] 
Capable of being gelded. 
One who gelds or castrates. 
Cold; very cold; frozen. "Gelid founts." Thompson. 
Jelly. [Obs.] Spenser. 
An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate, found in Gelidium, agar-agar, and other seaweeds. 
Trubute, tax. [Obs.] All these the king granted unto them . . . free from all gelts and payments, in a most full and ample manner. Fuller. 
A gelding. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
Gilding; tinsel. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A bud. From the joints of thy prolific stem A swelling knot is raised called a gem. Denham. 
The second part of the Talmud, or the commentary on the Mishna (which forms the first part or text). 
Coupled; paired. Bars gemel (Her.), two barrulets placed near and parallel to each other. 
One of the barrulets placed parallel and closed to each other. Cf. Bars gemel, under Gemel, a. Two gemels silver between two griffins passant. Strype. Gemel hinge (Locksmithing), a hinge consisting of an eye or loop and a hook. -- Gemel ring, a ring with two or more links; a gimbal. See Gimbal. -- Gemel window, a window with two bays. 
A constellation of the zodiac, containing the two bright stars Castor and Pollux; also, the third sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about May 20th. 
Twins; a pair; a couple. [Obs.] Shak. 
A leaf bud, as distinguished from a flower bud. 
A meeting; -- used in combination, as, Witenagemote, an assembly of the wise men. 
The chamois. 
A small South American deer (Furcifer Chilensis), with simple forked horns. [Written also guemul.] 
A worsted yarn or cord of peculiar smoothness, used in the manufacture of braid, fringe, etc. Simmonds. 
A classification of nouns, primarily according to sex; and secondarily according to some fancied or imputed quality associated with sex. Gender is a grammatical distinction and applies to words only. Sex is natural distinction and applies to living objects. R. Morris. 
To beget; to engender. 
To copulate; to breed. [R.] Shak. 
See Genus. 
A small-sized, well-proportioned, Spanish horse; a jennet. Shak. 
The chief city of Switzerland. Geneva Bible, a translation of the Bible into English, made and published by English refugees in Geneva (Geneva, 1560; London, 1576). It was the first English Bible printed in Roman type instead of the ancient black letter, the first which recognized the division into verses, and the first which ommited the Apocrypha. In form it was a small quarto, and soon superseded the large folio of Cranmer's translation. Called also Genevan Bible. -- Geneva convention (Mil.), an agreement made by representatives of the great continental powers at Geneva and signed in 1864, establishing new and more humane regulation regarding the treatment of the sick and wounded and the status of those who minister to them in war. Ambulances and military hospitals are made neutral, and this condition affects physicians, chaplains, nurses, and the ambulance corps. Great Britain signed the convention in 1865. -- Geneva cross (Mil.), a red Greek cross on a white ground; -- the flag and badge adopted in the Geneva convention. 
A strongly alcoholic liquor, flavores with juniper berries; -- made in Holland; Holland gin; Hollands. 
Same as Genian. 
The quality of being genial; sympathetic cheerfulness; warmth of disposition and manners. 
Of or pertaining to the chin; mental; as, the genian prominence. 
See Genius. 
A man of a particular turn of mind. [R.] Tatler. 
A rich glazed cake, with almonds, pistachios, filberts, or other nuts; also, a rich currant cake with almonds on the top. 
A style of painting, sculpture, or other imitative art, which illustrates everyday life and manners. 
A minor subdivision of a tribe, among American aborigines. It includes those who have a common descent, and bear the same totem. 
Somewhat genteel. 
Gentle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A dipterous larva used as fish bait. 
Persons of gentle or good family and breeding. Etym: [Generally in the United States in the plural form.] Shak. 
In a gentle manner. My mistress gently chides the fault I made. Dryden. 
A native of Hindostan; a Hindoo. [Archaic] 
Neat; trim. [Scot.] Burns. 
To bend the knee, as in worship. 
A class of objects divided into several subordinate species; a class more extensive than a species; a precisely defined and exactly divided class; one of the five predicable conceptions, or sorts of terms. 
See Conys. 
Living in the earth; -- applied to the ground beetles. 
A gold noble of the time of Henry VIII. See Noble, n. 
Belonging to earth; terrestrial. [Obs.] Bailey. 
A small coin and weight; 1-20th of a shekel. 
The manager or acting partner of a company, joint-stock association, etc. 
A kind of ornamental firework. Farrow. 
The jerboa. 
Gear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Bearing; carrying. [Obs.] Bailey. 
Changeable; capricious. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
That which is to develop a new individual; as, the germ of a fetus, of a plant or flower, and the like; the earliest form under which an organism appears. In the entire process in which a new being originates . . . two distinct classes of action participate; namely, the act of generation by which the germ is produced; and the act of development, by which that germ is evolved into the complete organism. Carpenter. 
To germinate. [R.] J. Morley. 
Nearly related; closely akin. Wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to the lion. Shak. Brother german. See Brother german. -- Cousins german. See the Note under Cousin. 
Of or pertaining to Germany. German Baptists. See Dunker. -- German bit, a wood-boring tool, having a long elliptical pod and a scew point. -- German carp (Zoöl.), the crucian carp. -- German millet (Bot.), a kind of millet (Setaria Italica, var.), whose seed is sometimes used for food. -- German paste, a prepared food for caged birds. -- German process (Metal.), the process of reducing copper ore in a blast furnace, after roasting, if necessary. Raymond. -- German sarsaparilla, a substitute for sarsaparilla extract. -- German sausage, a polony, or gut stuffed with meat partly cooked. -- German silver (Chem.), a silver-white alloy, hard and tough, but malleable and ductile, and quite permanent in the air. It contains nickel, copper, and zinc in varying proportions, and was originally made from old copper slag at Henneberg. A small amount of iron is sometimes added to make it whiter and harder. It is essentially identical with the Chinese alloy packfong. It was formerly much used for tableware, knife handles, frames, cases, bearings of machinery, etc., but is now largely superseded by other white alloys. -- German steel (Metal.), a metal made from bog iron ore in a forge, with charcoal for fuel. -- German text (Typog.), a character resembling modern German type, used in English printing for ornamental headings, etc., as in the words, 
See Germ. 
To grin or yawn. [Obs.] "[/He] gaped like a gulf when he did gern." Spenser. 
A garner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A verbal noun ending in -e, preceded by to and usually denoting purpose or end; -- called also the dative infinitive; as, "Ic hæbbe mete tô etanne" (I have meat to eat.) In Modern English the name has been applied to verbal or participal nouns in -ing denoting a transitive action; e. g., by throwing a stone. 
Changeable; fickle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To guess. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A variety of gesso which when dried becomes hard and durable, often used in making bas-relief casts, which are colored and mounted in elaborate frames. 
A guest. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Bearing within; laden; burdened; pregnant. [R.] "Clouds gestant with heat." Mrs. Browning. 
To tell stories or gests. [Obs.] 
To make gestures or motions, as in speaking; to use postures. Sir T. Herbert. 
Jet, the mineral. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Offspring; progeny; as, the get of a stallion. 
p. p. of Get. Chaucer. 
the original third pers. sing. pres. of Go. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who gets, gains, obtains, acquires, begets, or procreates. 
A showy trifle; a toy; a splendid plaything; a pretty but worthless bauble. A heavy gewgaw called a crown. Dryden. 
Showy; unreal; pretentious. Seeing his gewgaw castle shine. Tennyson. 
A boiling spring which throws forth at frequent intervals jets of water, mud, etc., driven up by the expansive power of steam. 
Any wheeled cart or carriage. [India] 
To strike aghast; to affright. [Obs.] Ghasted by the noise I made. Full suddenly he fled. Shak. 
Among Mohammedans, a warrior champion or veteran, esp. in the destruction of infidels. 
Butter clarified by boiling, and thus converted into a kind of oil. [India] Malcom. 
See Guess. [Obs.] 
The Jews'quarter in an Italian town or city. I went to the Ghetto, where the Jews dwell. Evelyn. 
See Ghoul. 
To die; to expire. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 
To appear to or haunt in the form of an apparition. [Obs.] Shak. 
An imaginary evil being among Eastern nations, which was supposed to feed upon human bodies. [Written also ghole .] Moore. 
A ravine. See Gill a woody glen. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Wordsworth. 
Like a giant; extraordinary in size, strength, or power; as, giant brothers; a giant son. Giant cell. (Anat.) See Myeloplax. -- Giant clam (Zoöl.), a bivalve shell of the genus Tridacna, esp. T. gigas, which sometimes weighs 500 pounds. The shells are sometimes used in churches to contain holy water. -- Giant heron (Zoöl.), a very large African heron (Ardeomega goliath). It is the largest heron known. -- Giant kettle, a pothole of very large dimensions, as found in Norway in connection with glaciers. See Pothole. -- Giant powder. See Nitroglycerin. -- Giant puffball (Bot.), a fungus (Lycoperdon giganteum), edible when young, and when dried used for stanching wounds. -- Giant salamander (Zoöl.), a very large aquatic salamander (Megalobatrachus maximus), found in Japan. It is the largest of living Amphibia, becoming a yard long. -- Giant squid (Zoöl.), one of several species of very large squids, belonging to Architeuthis and allied genera. Some are over forty feet long. 
An infidel; -- a term applied by Turks to disbelievers in the Mohammedan religion, especially Christrians. Byron. 
A male cat; a tomcat. [Obs.] 
To act like a cat. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
A piece or slip of metal or wood, notched or otherwise, in a machine or structure, to hold other parts in place or bind them together, or to afford a bearing surface; -- usually held or adjusted by means of a wedge, key, or screw. Gib and key, or Gib and cotter (Steam Engine), the fixed wedge or gib, and the driving wedge,key, or cotter, used for tightening the strap which holds the brasses at the end of a connecting rod. 
To secure or fasten with a gib, or gibs; to provide with a gib, or gibs. Gibbed lathe, an engine lathe in which the tool carriage is held down to the bed by a gib instead of by a weight. 
To balk. See Jib, v. i. Youatt. 
The offspring of a Spaniard and an Indian; a Spanish-Indian mestizo. [Sp. Amer.] 
A balky horse. Youatt. 
To speak rapidly and inarticulately. Shak. 
Wild fowl; game. [Obs.] Addison. 
Any arboreal ape of the genus Hylobates, of which many species and varieties inhabit the East Indies and Southern Asia. They are tailless and without cheek pouches, and have very long arms, adapted for climbing. 
To cast reproaches and sneering expressions; to rail; to utter taunting, sarcastic words; to flout; to fleer; to scoff. Fleer and gibe, and laugh and flout. Swift. 
To reproach with contemptuous words; to deride; to scoff at; to mock. Draw the beasts as I describe them, From their features, while I gibe them. Swift. 
An expression of sarcastic scorn; a sarcastic jest; a scoff; a taunt; a sneer. Mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns. Shak. With solemn gibe did Eustace banter me. Tennyson. 
A kind of carp (Cyprinus gibelio); -- called also Prussian carp. 
One who utters gibes. B. Jonson. 
Made of giblets; as, a giblet pie. 
A disease of sheep, characterized by vertigo; the staggers. It is caused by the presence of the CC. 
To reel; to whirl. Chapman. 
To make dizzy or unsteady. [Obs.] 
To guide. See Gye . [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To give. [Scot.] Burns. 
If. [Obs.] 
See Jiffy. 
A voluntary transfer of real or personal property, without any consideration. It can be perfected only by deed, or in case of personal property, by an actual delivery of possession. Bouvier. Burrill. Gift rope (Naut), a rope extended to a boat for towing it; a guest rope. 
To endow with some power or faculty. He was gifted . . . with philosophical sagacity. I. Taylor. 
A fiddle. [Obs.] 
To engender. [Obs.] Dryden. 
A kind of spear or harpoon. See Fishgig. 
To fish with a gig. 
A playful or wanton girl; a giglot. 
A long, light rowboat, generally clinkerbuilt, and designed to be fast; a boat appropriated to the use of the commanding officer; as, the captain's gig. 
Same as Gigot. Cut the slaves to giggets. Beau. & Fl. 
To laugh with short catches of the breath or voice; to laugh in a light, affected, or silly manner; to titter with childish levity. Giggling and laughing with all their might At the piteous hap of the fairy wight. J. R. Drake. 
A kind of laugh, with short catches of the voice or breath; a light, silly laugh. 
Prone to giggling. Carlyle. 
See Gigot. [Obs.] Chapman. 
Giddi; light; inconstant; wanton. [Obs.] "O giglot fortune!" Shak. 
A piece of lively dance music, in two strains which are repeated; also, the dance. 
A drinking bout in which every one pays an equal share. [Obs.] 
Gilded. Holland. 
One who gilds; one whose occupation is to overlay with gold. 
A Dutch coin. See Guilder. 
Guile. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An organ for aquatic respiration; a branchia. Fishes perform respiration under water by the gills. Ray. 
A two-wheeled frame for transporting timber. [Prov. Eng.] 
A leech. [Also gell.] [Scot.] Jameison. 
A woody glen; a narrow valley containing a stream. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A measure of capacity, containing one fourth of a pint. 
The ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma); -- called also gill over the ground, and other like names. 
A guiler; deceiver. [Obs.] 
See Grilse. 
A female pig, when young. 
imp. & p. p. of Gild. 
Gilded; covered with gold; of the color of gold; golden yellow. "Gilt hair" Chaucer. 
A marine fish. The name is applied to two species: (a) The Pagrus, or Chrysophrys, auratus, a valuable food fish common in the Mediterranean (so named from its golden-colored head); -- called also giltpoll. (b) The Crenilabrus melops, of the British coasts; -- called also golden maid, conner, sea partridge. 
Guilty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Neat; spruce. [Prov.] 
A small tool for boring holes. It has a leading screw, a grooved body, and a cross handle. Gimlet eye, a squint-eye. [Colloq.] Wright. 
To turn round (an anchor) by the stock, with a motion like turning a gimlet. 
Made or consisting of interlocked rings, gimmal mail. In their pale dull mouths the gimmal bit Lies foul with chewed grass. Shak. Gimmal joint. See Gimbal joint, under Gimbal. 
Smart; spruce; trim; nice. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
A narrow ornamental fabric of silk, woolen, or cotton, often with a metallic wire, or sometimes a coarse cord, running through it; -- used as trimming for dresses, furniture, etc. Gimp nail, an upholsterer's small nail. 
To notch; to indent; to jag. 
Against; near by; towards; as, gin night. [Scot.] A. Ross (1778). 
If. [Scotch] Jamieson. 
To begin; -- often followed by an infinitive without to; as, gan tell. See Gan. [Obs. or Archaic] "He gan to pray." Chaucer. 
A strong alcoholic liquor, distilled from rye and barley, and flavored with juniper berries; -- also called Hollands and Holland gin, because originally, and still very extensively, manufactured in Holland. Common gin is usually flavored with turpentine. 
Same as Gang, n., 2. [Obs.] There is a knot, a ging, a pack, a conspiracy against me. Shak. 
See Jingal. 
A plant of the genus Zingiber, of the East and West Indies. The species most known is Z. officinale. 
See Jingle. 
A large ornamental tree (Ginkgo biloba) from China and Japan, belonging to the Yew suborder of Coniferæ. Its leaves are so like those of some maidenhair ferns, that it is also called the maidenhair tree. 
See Jinnee. 
See Genet, a horse. 
To take out the entrails of (herrings). 
A servant. See Gyp. Sir W. Scott. 
A short cassock. [Written also gepoun, gypoun, jupon, juppon.] [Obs.] 
See Gypsy. 
To gibe; to sneer; to break a scornful jest; to utter severe sarcasms. Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at me. Shak. 
One who girds; a satirist. 
A main beam; a stright, horizontal beam to span an opening or carry weight, such as ends of floor beams, etc.; hence, a framed or built-up member discharging the same office, technically called a compound girder. See Illusts. of Frame, and Doubleframed floor, under Double. Bowstring girder, Box girder, etc. See under Bowstring, Box, etc. -- Girder bridge. See under Bridge. -- Lattice girder, a girder consisting of longitudinal bars united by diagonal crossing bars. -- Half-lattice girder, a girder consisting of horizontal upper and lower bars connected by a series of diagonal bars sloping alternately in opposite directions so as to divide the space between the bars into a series of triangles. Knight. -- Sandwich girder, a girder consisting of two parallel wooden beams, between which is an iron plate, the whole clamped together by iron bolts. 
A griddle. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 
The line ofgreatest circumference of a brilliant-cut diamond, at which it is grasped by the setting. See Illust. of Brilliant. Knight. 
An American longicorn beetle (Oncideres cingulatus) which lays its eggs in the twigs of the hickory, and then girdles each branch by gnawing a groove around it, thus killing it to provide suitable food for the larvæ. 
See Gyre. 
See Gherkin. 
A roebuck two years old. [Prov. Eng.] 
To grin. [Obs.] 
imp. & p. p. of Gird. 
To gird; to encircle; to invest by means of a girdle; to measure the girth of; as, to girt a tree. We here create thee the first duke of Suffolk, And girt thee with the sword. Shak. 
Bound by a cable; -- used of a vessel so moored by two anchors that she swings against one of the cables by force of the current or tide. 
Same as Girth. 
To bind as with a girth. [R.] Johnson. 
A weapon with a scythe-shaped blade, and a separate long sharp point, mounted on a long staff and carried by foot soldiers. 
To feed or pasture. [Obs.] 
Guise; manner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A pledge. [Obs.] Bp. Gibson. 
See Geat. 
A gown. [Obs.] She came often in a gite of red. Chaucer. 
The corn cockle; also anciently applied to the Nigella, or fennel flower. 
Same as Joust. Spenser. 
Same as Joust.  Spenser. 
In just, correct, or suitable time. 
To set forth as a known quantity or a known relation, or as a premise from which to reason; -- used principally in the passive form given. 
p. p. & a. from Give, v. 
One who gives; a donor; a bestower; a grantor; one who imparts or distributes. It is the giver, and not the gift, that engrosses the heart of the Christian. Kollock. 
Fetters. 
The second, or true, muscular stomach of birds, in which the food is crushed and ground, after being softened in the glandular stomach (crop), or lower part of the esophagus; the gigerium. 
Coated with icing; iced; glazed; -- said of fruits, sweetmeats, cake, etc. 
A gentle slope, or a smooth, gently sloping bank; especially (Fort.), that slope of earth which inclines from the covered way toward the exterior ground or country (see Illust. of Ravelin). 
To make glad; to cheer; to gladden; to exhilarate. Chaucer. That which gladded all the warrior train. Dryden. Each drinks the juice that glads the heart of man. Pope. 
To be glad; to rejoice. [Obs.] Massinger. 
Sword grass; any plant with sword-shaped leaves, esp. the European Iris foetidissima. [Written also gladwyn, gladdon, and glader.] 
State or quality of being glad; pleasure; joyful satisfaction; cheerfulness. They . . . did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart. Acts ii. 46. 
To smear with the white of an egg. 
See Glair. 
Like glair, or partaking of its qualities; covered with glair; viscous and transparent; slimy. Wiseman. 
A copious gummy secretion of the humor of the eyelids, in consequence of some disorder; blearedness; lippitude. 
A name given to some sulphides, mostly dark-colored, which have a brilliant metallic luster, as the sulphide of copper, called copper glance. Glance coal, anthracite; a mineral composed chiefly of carbon. -- Glance cobalt, cobaltite, or gray cobalt. -- Glance copper, c -- Glance wood, a hard wood grown in Cuba, and used for gauging instruments, carpenters' rules, etc. McElrath. 
In a glancing manner; transiently; incidentally; indirectly. Hakewill. 
The movable part of a stuffing box by which the packing is compressed; -- sometimes called a follower. See Illust. of Stuffing box, under Stuffing. 
The vascular body which forms the apex of the penis, and the extremity of the clitoris. 
To shoot out, or emit, as a dazzling light. Every eye Glared lightning, and shot forth pernicious fire. Milton. 
Smooth and bright or translucent; -- used almost exclusively of ice; as, skating on glare ice. [U. S.] 
Of a dazzling luster; glaring; bright; shining; smooth. Bright, crystal glass is glary. Boyle. 
Any substance having a peculiar glassy appearance, and a conchoidal fracture, and usually produced by fusion. 
The larval state (Phyllosoma) of the genus Palinurus and allied genera. It is remarkable for its strange outlines, thinness, and transparency. See Phyllosoma. 
A variety of the common hawthorn. Loudon. 
To grope with the hands, as in the dark. [Scot.] To glaum at, to grasp or snatch at; to aspire to. Wha glaum'd at kingdoms three. Burns. 
See Glaive. 
A flatterer. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag. 
To apply thinly a transparent or semitransparent color to (another color), to modify the effect. 
To become glazed of glassy. 
Broth reduced by boiling to a gelatinous paste, and spread thinly over braised dishes. 
Resembling glass; glasslike; glazed. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
One whose business is to set glass. Glazier's diamond. See under Diamond. 
Having a glazed appearance; -- said of the fractured surface of some kinds of pin iron. 
A live coal. See Gleed. [Archaic] 
To disgorge filth, as a hawk. 
To shoot out (flashes of light, etc.). Dying eyes gleamed forth their ashy lights. Shak. 
Darting beams of light; casting light in rays; flashing; coruscating. In brazed arms, that cast a gleamy ray, Swift through the town the warrior bends his way. Pope. 
A collection made by gleaning. The gleans of yellow thyme distend his thighs. Dryden. 
Cleaning; afterbirth. [Obs.] Holland. 
The chambered sporogenous tissue forming the central mass of the sporophore in puff balls, stinkhorns, etc. 
The land belonging, or yielding revenue, to a parish church or ecclesiastical benefice. 
The common European kite (Milvus ictinus). This name is also sometimes applied to the buzzard. [Written also glead, gled, gleed, glade, and glide.] 
A live coal. [Archaic] The cruel ire, red as any glede. Chaucer. 
An unaccompanied part song for three or more solo voices. It is not necessarily gleesome. 
A live or glowing coal; a glede. [Archaic] Chaucer. Longfellow. 
An enticing look or glance. [Obs.] A pretty gleek coming from Pallas' eye. Beau. & Fl. 
To make sport; to gibe; to sneer; to spend time idly. [Obs.] Shak. 
A name anciently given to an itinerant minstrel or musician. 
To glisten; to gleam. [Obs.] Prior. 
A transparent mucous discharge from the membrane of the urethra, commonly an effect of gonorrhea. Hoblyn. 
Ichorous; thin; limpid. Wiseman. 
Quick of perception; alert; sharp. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
A secluded and narrow valley; a dale; a depression between hills. And wooes the widow's daughter of the glen. Spenser. 
See Glint. 
See Glue. [Obs.] 
To squint; to look obliquely; to overlook things. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
Asquint; askance; obliquely. 
To make glib. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
A thick lock of hair, hanging over the eyes. [Obs.] The Irish have, from the Scythians, mantles and long glibs, which is a thick curied bush of hair hanging down over their eyes, and monstrously disguising them. Spenser. Their wild costume of the glib and mantle. Southey. 
To castrate; to geld; to emasculate. [Obs.] Shak. 
In a glib manner; as, to speak glibly. 
An ogling look. [Obs.] 
The glede or kite. 
To pass with a glide, as the voice. 
A transitional sound in speech which is produced by the changing of the mouth organs from one definite position to another, and with gradual change in the most frequent cases; as in passing from the begining to the end of a regular diphthong, or from vowel to consonant or consonant to vowel in a syllable, or from one component to the other of a double or diphthongal consonant (see Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 19, 161, 162). Also (by Bell and others), the vanish (or brief final element) or the brief initial element, in a class of diphthongal vowels, or the brief final or initial part of some consonants (see Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 18, 97, 191). 
p. p. of Glide. Chaucer. 
One who, or that which, glides. 
A sneer; a flout. [Obs.] 
To give feeble or scattered rays of light; to shine faintly; to show a faint, unsteady light; as, the glimmering dawn; a glimmering lamp. The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day. Shak. 
A glimpse, glance, or gleam. [Scot.] "He saw a glint of light." Ramsay. 
To glance; to peep forth, as a flower from the bud; to glitter. Burns. 
To glance; to turn; as, to glint the eye. 
A tumor springing from the neuroglia or connective tissue of the brain, spinal cord, or other portions of the nervous system. 
An order of mammals; the Rodentia. -- Gli"rine, a. 
Glimmer; mica. 
To be sullen or morose. [Obs.] 
The twilight; gloaming. [R.] Keats. 
To squint; to stare. [Obs.] 
To look steadfastly; to gaz In vengeance gloating on another's pain. Byron. 
To gather or form into a globe. 
Resembling, or pertaining to, a globe; round; orbicular. "The globy sea." Milton. 
imp. of Glide. Chaucer. 
Gloom. [Obs.] 
One of the two prominences at the posterior extremity of the frog of the horse's foot. 
In a gloomy manner. 
To surprise or astonish; to be startled or astonished. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To glare; to glower. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
Boast; a triumphing. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson. Internal gloriation or triumph of the mind. Hobbes. 
See Gloze. Chaucer. 
See Glosser. 
To give a superficial luster or gloss to; to make smooth and shining; as, to gloss cloth. The glossed and gleamy wave. J. R. Drake. 
The tongue, or lingua, of an insect. See Hymenoptera. 
An oven in which glazed pottery is fired; -- also called glaze kiln, or glaze. 
To pout; to look sullen. [Obs.] Garth. 
To view attentively; to gloat on; to stare at. [Obs.] Wright. 
To cover with, or as with, a glove. 
One whose trade it is to make or sell gloves. Glover's suture or stitch, a kind of stitch used in sewing up wounds, in which the thread is drawn alternately through each side from within outward. 
To make hot; to flush. [Poetic] Fans, whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool. Shak. 
The glowworm. [Obs.] 
to look intently; to stare angrily or with a scowl. Thackeray. 
To smooth over; to palliate. By glozing the evil that is in the world. I. Taylor. 
A flatterer. [Obs.] Gifford (1580). 
Pertaining to, or obtained from, sugar; as, glucic acid. 
A hard brittle brownish gelatin, obtained by boiling to a jelly the skins, hoofs, etc., of animals. When gently heated with water, it becomes viscid and tenaceous, and is used as a cement for uniting substances. The name is also given to other adhesive or viscous substances. Bee glue. See under Bee. -- Fish glue, a strong kind of glue obtained from fish skins and bladders; isinglass. -- Glue plant (Bot.), a fucoid seaweed (Gloiopeltis tenax). -- Liquid glue, a fluid preparation of glue and acetic acid oralcohol. -- Marine glue, a solution of caoutchouc in naphtha, with shellac, used in shipbuilding. 
To join with glue or a viscous substance; to cause to stick or hold fast, as if with glue; to fix or fasten. This cold, congealed blood That glues my lips, and will not let me speak. Shak. 
One who cements with glue. 
Viscous; glutinous; of the nature of, or like, glue. 
Somewhat gluey. Sherwood. 
Sullenness. [Obs.] Skelton. 
Moody; silent; sullen. I frighten people by my glun face. Thackeray. 
To look sullen; to be of a sour countenance; to be glum. [Obs.] Hawes. 
Characterized by a glume, or having the nature of a glume. 
The bracteal covering of the flowers or seeds of grain and grasses; esp., an outer husk or bract of a spikelt. Gray. 
In a glum manner; sullenly; moodily. 
dark; gloomy; dismal. [Obs.] 
To manifest sullenness; to sulk. [Colloq.] 
Glum; sullen; sulky. [Colloq.] "He was glumpy enough." T. Hook. 
Frowning; sulky; sullen. Sir W. Scott. -- n. 
To eat gluttonously or to satiety. Like three horses that have broken fence, And glutted all night long breast-deep in corn. Tennyson. 
The broad-nosed eel (Anguilla latirostris), found in Europe, Asia, the West Indies, etc. 
The viscid, tenacious substance which gives adhesiveness to dough. 
To unite with glue; to cement; to stick together. Bailey. 
Same as Glycocoll. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, glycol; as, glycolic ether; glycolic acid. Glycolic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, found naturally in unripe grapes and in the leaves of the wild grape (Ampelopsis quinquefolia), and produced artificially in many ways, as by the oxidation of glycol, -- whence its name. It is a sirupy, or white crystalline, substance, HO.CH2.CO2H, has the properties both of an alcohol and an acid, and is a type of the hydroxy acids; -- called also hydroxyacetic acid. 
A sunken channel or groove, usually vertical. See Triglyph. 
A knot or gnarl in wood; hence, a tough, thickset man; -- written also gnarr. [Archaic] He was . . . a thick gnarre. Chaucer. 
To gnarl; to snarl; to growl; -- written also gnarr. [Archaic] At them he gan to rear his bristles strong, And felly gnarre. Spenser. A thousand wants Gnarr at the heels of men. Tennison. 
To growl; to snarl. And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first. Shak. 
a knot in wood; a large or hard knot, or a protuberance with twisted grain, on a tree. 
Full of knots; knotty; twisted; crossgrained. 
To strike together, as in anger or pain; as, to gnash the teeth. 
To grind or strike the teeth together. There they him laid, Gnashing for anguish, and despite, and shame. Milton. 
A blood-sucking dipterous fly, of the genus Culex, undergoing a metamorphosis in water. The females have a proboscis armed with needlelike organs for penetrating the skin of animals. These are wanting in the males. In America they are generally called mosquitoes. See Mosquito. 
To use the teeth in biting; to bite with repeated effort, as in eating or removing with the teethsomething hard, unwiedly, or unmanageable. I might well, like the spaniel, gnaw upon the chain that ties me. Sir P. Sidney. 
A rodent. 
A crystalline rock, consisting, like granite, of quartz, feldspar, and mica, but having these materials, especially the mica, arranged in planes, so that it breaks rather easily into coarse slabs or flags. Hornblende sometimes takes the place of the mica, and it is then called hornblendic or syenitic gneiss. Similar varieties of related rocks are also called gneiss. 
imp. of Gnaw. Chaucer. 
To rub; to bruise; to break in pieces. [Obs.] 
Churl; curmudgeon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A small owl (Glaucidium gnoma) of the Western United States. 
The style or pin, which by its shadow, shows the hour of the day. It is usually set parallel to the earth's axis. 
The deeper wisdom; knowledge of spiritual truth, such as was claimed by the Gnostics. 
Gnawed. Chaucer. 
One of two species of large South African antelopes of the genus Catoblephas, having a mane and bushy tail, and curved horns in both sexes. [Written also gnoo.] 
A species of antelope (Procapra picticauda), inhabiting Thibet. 
A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, any necessity that urges or stimulates. The daily goad urging him to the daily toil. Macaulay. 
To prick; to drive with a goad; hence, to urge forward, or to rouse by anything pungent, severe, irritating, or inflaming; to stimulate. That temptation that doth goad us on. Shak. 
That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partially or wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob . To work the goaf or gob, to remove the pillars of mineral matter previously left to support the roof, and replace them with props. Ure. 
A bitter powder (also called araroba) found in the interspaces of the wood of a Brazilian tree (Andira araroba) and used as a medicine. It is the material from which chrysarobin is obtained. 
Same as lst Gore. 
A hollow-horned ruminant of the genus Capra, of several species and varieties, esp. the domestic goat (C. hircus), which is raised for its milk, flesh, and skin. 
A part of a man's beard on the chin or lower lip which is allowed to grow, and trimmed so as to resemble the beard of a goat. 
Old workings. See Goaf. Raymond. 
Same as Goaf. 
A Japanese game, played on a checkerboard, in which the object of the game is to be the first in placing five pieces, or men, in a row in any direction. 
A mouthful; a lump; a small piece. Spenser. [He] had broken the stocks to small gobbets. Wyclif. 
To swallow greedily; to swallow in gobbets. [Low] L'Estrange. 
A noise made in the throat. Ducks and geese . . . set up a discordant gobble. Mrs. Gore. 
See Gobbet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A kind of cup or drinking vessel having a foot or standard, but without a handle. We love not loaded boards and goblets crowned. Denham. 
An evil or mischievous spirit; a playful or malicious elf; a frightful phantom; a gnome. To whom the goblin, full of wrath, replied. Milton. 
One of several species of small marine fishes of the genus Gobius and allied genera. 
A framework moving on casters, designed to support children while learning to walk. 
Good. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To treat as a god; to idolize. [Obs.] Shak. 
Good. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A corruption of God yield, i. e., God reward or bless. Shak. 
Pious; reverencing God, and his character and laws; obedient to the commands of God from love for, and reverence of, his character; conformed to God's law; devout; righteous; as, a godly life. For godly sorrow worketh repentance. 2 Cor. vii. 10. 
Piously; devoutly; righteously. All that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. 2. Tim. iii. 12. 
A warehouse. [East Indies] 
A gossip. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A male for whom one has stood sponsor in baptism. See Godfather. 
One of several species of long-billed, wading birds of the genus Limosa, and family Tringidæ. The European black-tailed godwit (Limosa limosa), the American marbled godwit (L. fedoa), the Hudsonian godwit (L. hæmastica), and others, are valued as game birds. Called also godwin. 
Yellow. [Obs.] Tusser. 
A complex mixture of several substances extracted from Irish moss. 
p. p. of Go. [Obs.] 
One who, or that which, goes; a runner or walker; as: (a) A foot. [Obs.] Chapman. (b) A horse, considered in reference to his gait; as, a good goer; a safe goer. This antechamber has been filled with comers and goers. Macaulay. 
Invocation of evil spirits; witchcraft. [Obs.] Hallywell. 
A silly clown. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A game. See Golf. [Scot.] Halliwell. 
To plait, flute, or crimp. See Gauffer. Clarke. 
Haste; ardent desire to go. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
To roll the eyes; to stare. And wink and goggle like an owl. Hudibras. 
Full and rolling, or staring; -- said of the eyes. The long, sallow vissage, the goggle eyes. Sir W. Scott. 
Prominent; staring, as the eye. 
See Gurglet. 
Course of life; behavior; doings; ways. His eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings. Job xxxiv. 21. Going barrel. (Horology) (a) A barrel containing the mainspring, and having teeth on its periphery to drive the train. (b) A device for maintaining a force to drive the train while the timepiece is being wound up. -- Going forth. (Script.) (a) Outlet; way of exit. "Every going forth of the sanctuary." Ezek. xliv. 5. (b) A limit; a border. "The going forth thereof shall be from the south to Kadesh-barnea." Num. xxxiv. 4. -- Going out, or Goings out. (Script.) (a) The utmost extremity or limit. "The border shall go down to Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the salt sea." Num. xxxiv. 12. (b) Departure or journeying. "And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys." Num. xxxiii. 2. -- Goings on, behavior; actions; conduct; -- usually in a bad sense. 
A metallic element, constituting the most precious metal used as a common commercial medium of exchange. It has a characteristic yellow color, is one of the heaviest substances known (specific gravity 19.32), is soft, and very malleable and ductile. It is quite unalterable by heat, moisture, and most corrosive agents, and therefore well suited for its use in coin and jewelry. Symbol Au (Aurum). Atomic weight 196.7. 
A duck (Glaucionetta clangula), found in Northern Europe, Asia, and America. The American variety (var. Americana) is larger. Called whistler, garrot, gowdy, pied widgeon, whiteside, curre, and doucker. Barrow's golden-eye of America (G. Islandica) is less common. 
Same as Goldylocks. 
The gullet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A California trout. See Malma. 
A game played with a small ball and a bat or club crooked at the lower end. He who drives the ball into each of a series of small holes in the ground and brings it into the last hole with the fewest strokes is the winner. [Scot.] Strutt. 
One who plays golf. [Scot.] 
A hand, paw, or claw. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. B. Jonson. 
See Galore. 
A husband; a master of a family. [Obs.] 
See Gumbo. 
A man. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 
The black grease on the axle of a cart or wagon wheel; -- called also gorm. See Gorm. [Prov. Eng.] 
A Hebrew measure. See Homer. 
A conical chamber at the breech of the bore in heavy ordnance, especially in mortars; -- named after the inventor. 
A black, fibrous substance resembling horsehair, obtained from the leafstalks of two kinds of palms, Metroxylon Sagu, and Arenga saccharifera, of the Indian islands. It is used for making cordage. Called also ejoo. 
imp. & p. p. of Go. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One of the masses of generative tissue primitively alike in both sexes, but giving rise to either an ovary or a testis; a generative gland; a germ gland. Wiedersheim. 
p. p. of Go. 
A privy or jakes. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gong farmer, Gong man, a cleaner of privies. [Obs.] 
An instrument, first used in the East, made of an alloy of copper and tin, shaped like a disk with upturned rim, and producing, when struck, a harsh and resounding noise. O'er distant deserts sounds the Tartar gong. Longfellow. 
A pickpocket or thief. [Eng. Slang] Dickens. 
The keel or lower outline of a bird's bill, so far as the mandibular rami are united. 
A peanut. [Southern U. S.] 
Wares; commodities; chattels; -- formerly used in the singular in a collective sense. In law, a comprehensive name for almost all personal property as distinguished from land or real property. Wharton. He hath made us spend much good. Chaucer. Thy lands and goods Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate Unto the state of Venice. Shak. Dress goods, Dry goods, etc. See in the Vocabulary. -- Goods engine, a freight locomotive. [Eng.] -- Goods train, a freight train. [Eng.] -- Goods wagon, a freight car [Eng.] See the Note under Car, n., 2. 
Well, -- especially in the phrase as good, with a following as expressed or implied; equally well with as much advantage or as little harm as possible. As good almost kill a man as kill a good book. Milton. As good as, in effect; virtually; the same as. They who counsel ye to such a suppressing, do as good as bid ye suppress yourselves. Milton. 
Farewell; a form of address used at parting. See the last Note under By, prep. Shak. 
Excellently. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Goodness; grace; goodliness. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See Good, n., 3. 
An American fish; the lafayette or spot. 
Goodwife; -- a low term of civility or sport. 
Any thorny shrub of the genus Ribes; also, the edible berries of such shrub. There are several species, of which Ribes Grossularia is the one commonly cultivated. 
Ghost; spirit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A goat. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Minnesota; -- a nickname alluding to the abundance of gophers. 
An Indian goat antelope (Nemorhedus goral), resembling the chamois. 
Same as Gourami. 
A pool of water to keep fish in; a wear. [Obs.] 
An instrument of gaming; a sort of dice. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
One of the abatements. It is made of two curved lines, meeting in an acute angle in the fesse point. 
To pierce or wound, as with a horn; to penetrate with a pointed instrument, as a spear; to stab. The low stumps shall gore His daintly feet. Coleridge. 
To cut in a traingular form; to piece with a gore; to provide with a gore; as, to gore an apron. 
A dung fly. 
A concave molding; a cavetto. Gwilt. 
To eat greedily and to satiety. Milton. 
Bearing a coronet or ring about the neck. 
A crescent-shaped, colored patch on the neck of a bird or mammal. Gorget hummer (Zoöl.), a humming bird of the genus Trochilus. See Rubythroat. 
One of three fabled sisters, Stheno, Euryale, and Medusa, with snaky hair and of terrific aspect, the sight of whom turned the beholder to stone. The name is particularly given to Medusa. 
Like a Gorgon; very ugly or terrific; as, a Gorgon face. Dryden. 
The female of the gorcock. 
Axle grease. See Gome. [Prov. Eng.] 
To daub, as the hands or clothing, with gorm; to daub with anything sticky. [Prov. Eng.] 
The European cormorant. 
Furze. See Furze. The common, overgrown with fern, and rough With prickly gorse. Cowper. Gorse bird (Zoöl.), the European linnet; -- called also gorse hatcher. [Prov. Eng.] -- Gorse chat (Zoöl.), the winchat. -- Gorse duck, the corncrake; -- called also grass drake, land drake, and corn drake. 
Any large hawk of the genus Astur, of which many species and varieties are known. The European (Astur palumbarius) and the American (A. atricapillus) are the best known species. They are noted for their powerful flight, activity, and courage. The Australian goshawk (A. Novæ-Hollandiæ) is pure white. 
One of several species of pygmy geese, of the genus Nettepus. They are about the size of a teal, and inhabit Africa, India, and Australia. 
Accordant with, or relating to, the gospel; evangelical; as, gospel righteousness. Bp. Warburton. 
To instruct in the gospel. [Obs.] Shak. 
Gorse. [Obs.] Shak. 
Decomposed rock, usually reddish or ferruginous (owing to oxidized pyrites), forming the upper part of a metallic vein. 
A small British marine fish (Motella tricirrata); -- called also whistler and three-bearded rockling. [Prov. Eng.] 
A gossip. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
To stand sponsor to. [Obs.] Shak. 
One given to gossip. Beaconsfield. 
imp. & p. p. of Get. See Get. 
A channel for water. [Prov. Eng.] Crose. 
a gutter. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One of an ancient Teutonic race, who dwelt between the Elbe and the Vistula in the early part of the Christian era, and who overran and took an important part in subverting the Roman empire. 
Of or pertaining to a style of architecture with pointed arches, steep roofs, windows large in proportion to the wall spaces, and, generally, great height in proportion to the other dimensions -- prevalent in Western Europe from about 1200 to 1475 a. d. See Illust. of Abacus, and Capital. 
The style described in Gothic, a., 2. 
p. p. of Get. 
Woad. [Obs.] 
Soft material lying between the wall of a vein aud the solid vein. Raymond. 
See Plum Gouger. 
See Koulan. 
One of several species of large, crested ground pigeons of the genus Goura, inhabiting New Guinea and adjacent islands. The Queen Victoria pigeon (Goura Victoria) and the crowned pigeon (G. coronata) are among the beat known species. 
A fleshy, three-celled, many-seeded fruit, as the melon, pumpkin, cucumber, etc., of the order Cucurbitaceæ; and especially the bottle gourd (Lagenaria vulgaris) which occurs in a great variety of forms, and, when the interior part is removed, serves for bottles, dippers, cups, and other dishes. 
A false die. See Gord. 
Swelled in the legs. 
A constitutional disease, occurring by paroxysms. It constists in an inflammation of the fibrous and ligamentous parts of the joints, and almost always attacks first the great toe, next the smaller joints, after which, it may attack the greater articulations. It is attended with various sympathettic phenomena, particularly in the digestive organs. It may also attack internal organs, as the stomach, the intestines, etc. Dunglison. 
Taste; relish. 
A mow; a rick for hay. [Obs.] Tusser. 
To require to be in a particular case; as, a transitive verb governs a noun in the objective case; or to require (a particular case); as, a transitive verb governs the objective case. 
To exercise authority; to administer the laws; to have the control. Dryden. 
Decomposed granite. 
Having, abounding in, or decked with, daisies. [Scot.] Sweeter than gowany glens or new-mown hay. Ramsay. 
Gold; wealth. [Scot.] The man's the gowd for a' that. Burns. 
Golden. [Scot.] 
See Dragont. [Scot.] 
To make a, booby of one); to stupefy. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To howl. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
Dressed in a gown; clad. Gowned in pure white, that fitted to the shape. Tennyson. 
See Grail., a dish. 
A vessel used on the Malabar coast, having two or three masts. 
To gripe suddenly; to seize; to snatch; to clutch. 
One who seizes or grabs. 
The divine favor toward man; the mercy of God, as distinguished from His justice; also, any benefits His mercy imparts; divine love or pardon; a state of acceptance with God; enjoyment of the divine favor. And if by grace, then is it no more of works. Rom. xi. 6. My grace is sufficicnt for thee. 2 Cor. xii. 9. Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. Rom. v. 20. By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand. Rom. v.2 
Endowed with grace; beautiful; full of graces; honorable. Shak. 
The result of crossing a native stock with some better breed. If the crossbreed have more than three fourths of the better blood, it is called high grade. At grade, on the same level; -- said of the crossing of a railroad with another railroad or a highway, when they are on the same level at the point of crossing. -- Down grade, a descent, as on a graded railroad. -- Up grade, an ascent, as on a graded railroad. -- Equating for grades. See under Equate. -- Grade crossing, a crossing at grade. 
To cross with some better breed; to improve the blood of. 
1. One who grades, or that by means of which grading is done or facilitate. 
A dictionary of prosody, designed as an aid in writing Greek or Latin poetry. He set to work . . . without gradus or other help. T. Hughes. 
A German title of nobility, equivalent to earl in English, or count in French. See Earl. 
A steward; an overseer. [A prince] is nothing but a servant, overseer, or graff, and not the head, which is a title belonging only to Christ. John Knox. 
See Graft. 
To implant a portion of (living flesh or akin) in a lesion so as to form an organic union. 
To insert scions from one tree, or kind of tree, etc., into another; to practice grafting. 
A book of offices in the Roman Catholic Church; a gradual. [Obs.] T. Warton. Such as antiphonals, missals, grails, processionals, etc. Strype. 
A broad, open dish; a chalice; -- only used of the Holy Grail. 
Small particles of earth; gravel. [Obs.] Lying down upon the sandy grail. Spenser. 
One of the small feathers of a hawk. 
See Groan. [Obs.] 
The remains of grain, etc., after brewing or distillation; hence, any residuum. Also called draff. 
An iron first speak or harpoon, having four or more barbed points. 
Resembling grains; granular. 
A dungfork. [Scot.] Burns. 
See Greith. Chaucer. 
Furniture; apparatus or accouterments for work, traveling, war, etc. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
See Grackle. 
Angry. [Obs.] Havelok, the Dane. 
The East Indian name of the chick-pea (Cicer arietinum) and its seeds; also, other similar seeds there used for food. 
A word formerly used to express thankfulness, with surprise; many thanks. Gramercy, Mammon, said the gentle knight. Spenser. 
Same as Gram the weight. 
An old woman; specifically, a grandmother. Shak. 
See Groan. [Obs.] 
The practice of illustrating a particular book by engravings collected from other books. 
A grandmother; a grandam; familiarly, an old woman. Granny's bend, or Granny's knot (Naut.), a kind of insecure knot or hitch; a reef knot crossed the wrong way. 
To assent; to consent. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A transfer of property by deed or writing; especially, au appropriation or conveyance made by the government; as, a grant of land or of money; also, the deed or writing by which the transfer is made. 
A well-known edible berry growing in pendent clusters or bunches on the grapevine. The berries are smooth-skinned, have a juicy pulp, and are cultivated in great quantities for table use and for making wine and raisins. 
Composed of, or resembling, grapes. The grapy clusters. Addison. 
To effect a grasp; to make the motion of grasping; to clutch; to struggle; to strive. As one that grasped And tugged for life and was by strength subdued. Shak. To grasp at, to catch at; to try to seize; as, Alexander grasped at universal empire, 
Capable of being grasped. 
An endogenous plant having simple leaves, a stem generally jointed and tubular, the husks or glumes in pairs, and the seed single. 
To produce grass. [R.] Tusser. 
Serving to gratify; agreeable. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 
To furnish with grates; to protect with a grating or crossbars; as, to grate a window. 
Furnished with a grate or grating; as, grated windows. 
One who, or that which, grates; especially, an instrument or utensil with a rough, indented surface, for rubbing off small particles of any substance; as a grater for nutmegs. 
The brown crust formed upon a gratinated dish; also, dish itself, as crusts bread, game, or poultry. 
For nothing; without fee or recompense; freely; gratuitously. 
See Grant. Chaucer. 
(Naut.) To clean, as a vessel's bottom, of barnacles, grass, etc., and pay it over with pitch; -- so called because graves or greaves was formerly used for this purpose. 
To write or delineate on hard substances, by means of incised lines; to practice engraving. 
An excavation in the earth as a place of burial; also, any place of interment; a tomb; a sepulcher. Hence: Death; destruction. He bad lain in the grave four days. John xi. 17. Grave wax, adipocere. 
A deposit of small calculous concretions in the kidneys and the urinary or gall bladder; also, the disease of which they are a symptom. Gravel powder, a coarse gunpowder; pebble powder. 
Without a grave; unburied. 
Carved. Graven image, an idol; an object of worship carved from wood, stone, etc. "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image." Ex. xx. 4. 
The act, process, or art, of graving or carving; engraving. Either of picture or gravery and embossing. Holland. 
The sediment of melted tallow. Same as Greaves. 
Pertaining to, or causing, gravitation; as, gravic forces; gravic attraction. [R.] 
Being with child; heavy with young; pregnant; fruitful; as, a gravid uterus; gravid piety. " His gravid associate." Sir T. Herbert. 
An old man. Shak. 
One that grazes; a creature which feeds on growing grass or herbage. The cackling goose, Close grazer, finds wherewith to ease her want. J. Philips. 
See Gree, a step. [Obs.] 
See Gree, good will. [Obs.] 
An inflammation of a horse's heels, suspending the ordinary greasy secretion of the part, and producing dryness and scurfiness, followed by cracks, ulceration, and fungous excrescences. Grease bush. (Bot.) Same as Grease wood (below). -- Grease moth (Zoöl.), a pyralid moth (Aglossa pinguinalis) whose larva eats greasy cloth, etc. -- Grease wood (Bot.), a scraggy, stunted, and somewhat prickly shrub (Sarcobatus vermiculatus) of the Spinach family, very abundant in alkaline valleys from the upper Missouri to California. The name is also applied to other plants of the same family, as several species of Atriplex and Obione. 
A cock or cup containing grease, to serve as a lubricator. 
Affected with the disease called grease; as, the heels of a horse. See Grease, n., 2. 
The whole.; the gross; as, a contract to build a ship by the great. 
A grove. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Armor for the leg below the knee; -- usually in the plural. 
To clean (a ship's bottom); to grave. 
One of several swimming birds or divers, of the genus Colymbus (formerly Podiceps), aud allied genera, found in the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia. They have strong, sharp bills, and lobate toes. 
To agree. [Obs.] Fuller. 
A step. 
See Gree a step. [Obs.] 
An eager desire or longing; greediness; as, a greed of gain. 
A glutton. [Low] Todd. 
Of or pertaining to Greece or the Greeks; Grecian. Greek calends. See under Calends. -- Greek Church (Eccl. Hist.), the Eastern Church; that part of Christendom which separated from the Roman or Western Church in the ninth century. It comprises the great bulk of the Christian population of Russia (of which this is the established church), Greece, Moldavia, and Wallachia. The Greek Church is governed by patriarchs and is called also the Byzantine Church. -- Greek cross. See Illust. (10) Of Cross. -- Greek Empire. See Byzantine Empire. -- Greek fire, a combustible composition which burns under water, the constituents of which are supposed to be asphalt, with niter and sulphur. Ure. -- Greek rose, the flower campion. 
A time that will never come, as the Greeks had no calends. 
To make green. Great spring before Greened all the year. Thomson. 
To become or grow green. Tennyson. By greening slope and singing flood. Whittier. 
Great. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To weep; to cry; to lament. [Obs. or Scot.] [Written also greit.] Spenser. 
Mourning. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To meet and give salutations. There greet in silence, as the dead are wont, And sleep in peace. Shak. 
Greeting. [Obs.] F. Beaumont. 
See Grieve, an overseer. 
A step. See Gree, a step. [Obs.] The top of the ladder, or first greeze, is this. Latimer. 
Pertaining to, or like, a flock. For this gregal conformity there is an excuse. W. S. Mayo. 
See Greet, to weep. 
To make ready; -- often used reflexively. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Goods; furniture. [Obs.] 
Green. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Grass. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. of Greet, to salute. 
A grove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. of Grow. 
See Gray (the correct orthography). 
A little pig. [Written also grise.] [Scot.] 
See Gree, a step. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A grating of thin parallel bars, similar to a gridiron. 
To cut with a grating sound; to cut; to penetrate or pierce harshly; as, the griding sword. Milton. That through his thigh the mortal steel did gride. Spenser. 
A harsh scraping or cutting; a grating. The gride of hatchets fiercely thrown. On wigwam log, and tree, and stone. Whittier. 
Full of grief or sorrow. Sackvingle. 
See Greggoe. 
To feel grief; to be in pain of mind on account of an evil; to sorrow; to mourn; -- often followed by at, for, or over. Do not you grieve at this. Shak. 
An arrangement of parallel bars for lifting the hooked wires which raise the warp threads in a loom for weaving figured goods. Knight. 
The offspring of a mulatto woman and a negro; also, a mulatto. [Local, U. S.] 
Harah; hard; severe; stern; rough. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
The act of grilling; also, that which is grilled. 
A lattice or grating. The grille which formed part of the gate. L. Oliphant. 
To broil; to grill; hence, To harass. [Obs.] Hudibras. 
A young salmon after its first return from the sea. 
Of forbidding or fear-inspiring aspect; fierce; stern; surly; cruel; frightful; horrible. Whose grim aspect sets every joint a-shaking. Shak . The ridges of grim war. Milton. 
Foul matter; dirt, rubbed in; sullying blackness, deeply ingrained. 
To sully or soil deeply; to dirt. Shak. 
Grim; hideous; stern. [R.] In glided Margaret's grimly ghost, And stood at William's feet. D. Mallet. 
In a grim manner; fiercely. Shak. 
A West African antelope (Cephalophus rufilotus) of a deep bay color, with a broad dorsal stripe of black; -- called also conquetoon. 
Full of grime; begrimed; dirty; foul. 
A snare; a gin. [Obs.] Like a bird that hasteth to his grin. Remedy of Love. 
To express by grinning. Grinned horrible a ghastly smile.Milton. 
The act of closing the teeth and showing them, or of withdrawing the lips and showing the teeth; a hard, forced, or smeering smile. I.Watts. He showed twenty teeth at a grin. Addison. 
Ground. Sir W. Scott. 
Among Spanish Americans, a foreigner, esp. an Englishman or American; -- often used as a term of reproach. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Grind, Etym: contr. from grindeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. of Grin, v. i., 1. [He] grinte with his teeth, so was he wroth. Chaucer. 
The griffin. [Obs.] 
A small ditch or furrow. Ray. 
To trench; to drain. 
To give a grip to; to grasp; to gripe. 
A vulture; the griffin. [Obs.] Like a white hind under the gripe's sharp claws. Shak. Gripe's egg, an alchemist's vessel. [Obs.] E. Jonson. 
To tend to come up into the wind, as a ship which, when sailing closehauled, requires constant labor at the helm. R. H. Dana, Jr. 
A device for grasping or holding anything; a brake to stop a wheel. 
One who gripes; an oppressor; an extortioner. Burton. 
The influenza or epidemic catarrh. Dunglison. 
Gray. [R.] Chaucer. 
A costly kind of fur. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A little pig. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
See Grice, a pig. [Prov. Eng.] 
A step (in a flight of stairs); a degree. [Obs.] Every grise of fortune Is smoothed by that below. Shak. 
Frightful; horrible; dreadful; harsh; as, grisly locks; a grisly specter. "Grisly to behold." Chaucer. A man of grisly and stern gravity. Robynson (More's Utopia). Grisly bear. (Zoöl.) See under Grizzly. 
The largest and most eastern of the Swiss cantons. 
Cartilage. See Cartilage. Bacon. 
Grain, esp. oats or wheat, hulled and coarsely ground; in high milling, fragments of cracked wheat smaller than groats. 
To give forth a grating sound, as sand under the feet; to grate; to grind. The sanded floor that grits beneath the tread. Goldsmith. 
To grind; to rub harshly together; to grate; as, to grit the teeth. [Collog.] 
Peace; security; agreement. [Obs.] Gower. 
A monkey of the upper Nile and Abyssinia (Cercopithecus griseoviridis), having the upper parts dull green, the lower parts white, the hands, ears, and face black. It was known to the ancient Egyptians. Called also tota. 
Same as 2d Grise. [Obs.] 
To affect by groans. 
A low, moaning sound; usually, a deep, mournful sound uttered in pain or great distress; sometimes, an expression of strong disapprobation; as, the remark was received with groans. Such groans of roaring wind and rain. Shak. The wretched animal heaved forth such groans. Shak. 
Dried grain, as oats or wheat, hulled and broken or crushed; in high milling, cracked fragments of wheat larger than grits. Embden groats, crushed oats. 
A trader who deals in tea, sugar, spices, coffee, fruits, and various other commodities. Grocer's itch (Med.), a disease of the akin, caused by handling sugar and treacle. 
A mixture of spirit and water not sweetened; hence, any intoxicating liquor. Grog blossom, a redness on the nose or face of persons who drink ardent spirits to excess. [Collog.] 
Moving in a hobbling manner, owing to ten der feet; -- said of a horse. Youatt. 
The snout of a swine. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To grunt to growl; to snarl; to murmur. [Obs.] Chaucer. Bears that groined coatinually. Spenser. 
The line between the lower part of the abdomen and the thigh, or the region of this line; the inguen. 
To fashion into groins; to build with groins. The hand that rounded Peter's dome, And groined the aisles of Christian Rome, Wrought in a sad sincerity. Emerson. 
Same as Grommet. 
obs. imp. of Grind. Chaucer. 
obs. imp. of Groan. Chaucer. 
To tend or care for, or to curry or clean, as a, horse. 
A shaft or excavation. [Prov. Eng.] 
To cut a groove or channel in; to form into channels or grooves; to furrow. 
One who gropes; one who feels his way in the dark, or searches by feeling. 
A heavy silk with a dull finish; as, gros de Naples; gros de Tours. 
The number of twelve dozen; twelve times twelve; as, a gross of bottles; ten gross of pens. Advowson in gross (Law), an advowson belonging to a person, and not to a manor. -- A great gross, twelve gross; one hundred and forty-four dozen. -- By the gross, by the quantity; at wholesale. -- Common in gross. (Law) See under Common, n. -- In the gross, In gross, in the bulk, or the undivided whole; all parts taken together. 
A grotto. [Poetic] Milton. 
A natural covered opening in the earth; a cave; also, an artificial recess, cave, or cavernlike apartment. 
A floor or pavement supposed to rest upon the earth. 
To connect with the ground so as to make the earth a part of an electrical circuit. 
To run aground; to strike the bottom and remain fixed; as, the ship grounded on the bar. 
imp. & p. p. of Grind. Ground cock, a cock, the plug of which is ground into its seat, as distinguished from a compression cock. Knight. -- Ground glass, glass the transparency of which has been destroyed by having its surface roughened by grinding. -- Ground joint, a close joint made by grinding together two pieces, as of metal with emery and oil, or of glass with fine sand and water. 
A variously limited assemblage of animals or planta, having some resemblance, or common characteristics in form or structure. The term has different uses, and may be made to include certain species of a genus, or a whole genus, or certain genera, or even several orders. 
To form a group of; to arrange or combine in a group or in groups, often with reference to mutual relation and the best effect; to form an assemblage of. The difficulty lies in drawing and disposing, or, as the painters term it, in grouping such a multitude of different objects. Prior. Grouped columns (Arch.), three or moro columns placed upon the same pedestal. 
) Any of the numerous species of gallinaceous birds of the family Tetraonidæ, and subfamily Tetraoninæ, inhabiting Europe, Asia, and North America. They have plump bodies, strong, well-feathered legs, and usually mottled plumage. The group includes the ptarmigans (Lagopus), having feathered feet. 
To seek or shoot grouse. 
Lees; dregs; grounds. [Eng.] "Grouts of tea." Dickens. 
To fill up or finish with grout, as the joints between stones. 
Cross; sulky; sullen. [Colloq.] 
The original sense seems to have been a lane cut through trees. See Grave, v., and cf. Groove.] A smaller group of trees than a forest, and without underwood, planted, or growing naturally as if arranged by art; a wood of small extent. 
One who grovels; an abject wretch. [Written also groveller.] 
Pertaining to, or resembling, a grove; situated in, or frequenting, groves. Dampier. 
To cause to grow; to cultivate; to produce; as, to grow a crop; to grow wheat, hops, or tobacco. Macaulay. 
A decomposed granite, forming a mass of gravel, as in tin lodes in Cornwall. 
One who grows or produces; as, a grower of corn; also, that which grows or increases; as, a vine may be a rank or a slow grower. 
To utter a deep guttural sound, sa an angry dog; to give forth an angry, grumbling sound. Gay. 
To express by growling. Thomson. 
The deep, threatening sound made by a surly dog; a grumbling sound. 
p. p. of Grow. 
To shiver; to have chills. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray. 
A lazy person; a blockhead. [Obs.] Tusser. 
See Groin. 
The larva of an insect, especially of a beetle; -- called also grubworm. See Illust. of Goldsmith beetle, under Goldsmith. Yet your butterfly was a grub. Shak. 
Dirty; unclean. [Colloq.] The grubby game of marbles. Lond. Sat. Rev. 
Any species of Cottus; a sculpin. [Local, U. S.] 
Full of grudge; envious. "Grudgeful discontent." Spenser. 
A light, liquid food, made by boiling meal of maize, oatmeal, or fiour in water or milk; thin porridge. 
Forwards; with one's face to the ground. [Obs.] They fellen gruf, and cryed piteously. Chaucer. 
Of a rough or stern manner, voice, or countenance; sour; surly; severe; harsh. Addison. Gruff, disagreeable, sarcastic remarks. Thackeray. -- Gruff"ly, adv. -- Gruff"ness, n. 
To express or utter with grumbling. 
A thick, viscid fluid; a clot, as of blood. Quincy. 
In a grum manner. 
Surly; dissatisfied; grouty. [Collog.] Ferby. 
To make a deep, short noise, as a hog; to utter a short groan or a deep guttural sound. Who would fardels bear, To grunt and sweat under a weary life. Shak. Grunting ox (Zoöl.), the yak. 
Any one of several species of American food fishes, of the genus Hæmulon, allied to the snappers, as, the black grunt (A. Plumieri), and the redmouth grunt (H. aurolineatus), of the Southern United States; -- also applied to allied species of the genera Pomadasys, Orthopristis, and Pristopoma. Called also pigfish, squirrel fish, and grunter; -- so called from the noise it makes when taken. 
See Grudge. [Obs.] Hudibras. 
To gride. See Gride. Spenser. 
See Griffin. Spenser. 
To gripe. [Obs.] See Gripe. Spenser. 
A vulture; the griffin. [Written also gripe.] [Obs.] 
Pertaining to, or resembling, guaiacum. -- n. Guaiacum. 
Any one of many species of large gallinaceous birds of Certal and South America, belonging to Penelope, Pipile, Ortalis, and allied genera. Several of the species are often domesticated. 
See Iguana. 
A crystalline substance (C5H5N5O) contained in guano. It is also a constituent of the liver, pancreas, and other glands in mammals. 
A substance found in great abundance on some coasts or islands frequented by sea fowls, and composed chiefly of their excrement. It is rich in phosphates and ammonia, and is used as a powerful fertilizer. 
A preparation from the seeds of Paullinia sorbilis, a woody climber of Brazil, used in making an astringent drink, and also in the cure of headache. 
To watch by way of caution or defense; to be caution; to be in a state or position of defense or safety; as, careful persons guard against mistakes. 
The fibrous sheath which covers the phragmacone of the Belemnites. 
A body of picked troops; as, "The Household Guards." 
A tropical tree, or its fruit, of the genus Psidium. Two varieties are well known, the P. pyriferum, or white guava, and P. pomiferum, or red guava. The fruit or berry is shaped like a pomegranate, but is much smaller. It is somewhat astringent, but makes a delicious jelly. 
A sharper; a rogue. [Obs.] J. Webstar. 
One of several long-tailed Oriental monkeys, of the genus Cercocebus, as the green monkey and grivet. 
To make a guess or random judgment; to conjecture; -- with at, about, etc This is the place, as well as I may guess. Milton. 
An opinion as to anything, formed without sufficient or decisive evidence or grounds; an attempt to hit upon the truth by a random judgment; a conjecture; a surmise. A poet must confess His art 's like physic -- but a happy guess. Dryden. 
To receive or entertain hospitably. [Obs.] Sylvester. 
To be, or act the part of, a guest. [Obs.] And tell me, best of princes, who he was That guested here so late. Chapman. 
One of several very small species and varieties of African antelopes, of the genus Cephalophus, as the Cape guevi or kleeneboc (C. pyg. mæa); -- called also pygmy antelope. 
A loud burst of laughter, a horse laugh. "A hearty low guffaw." Carlyle. 
The eelpout; guffer eel. 
See Gurgle. 
A loose, earthy deposit from water, found in the cavities or clefts of rocks, mostly white, but sometimes red or yellow, from a mixture of clay or ocher. P. Cleaveland. 
Same as Guaiac. 
A West African antelope (Tragelaphus scriptus), curiously marked with white stripes and spots on a reddish fawn ground, and hence called harnessed antelope; -- called also guiba. 
A grooved director for a probe or knife. (c) (Printing) A strip or device to direct the compositor's eye to the line of copy he is setting. 
A guide; a director. Shak. 
See Gige. 
Liable to a tax. [Obs.] 
Craft; deceitful cunning; artifice; duplicity; wile; deceit; treachery. Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile. John i. 47. To wage by force or guile eternal war. Milton. 
To disguise or conceal; to deceive or delude. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A deceiver; one who deludes, or uses guile. [Obs.] Spenser. 
In a guilty manner. 
Guiltily. [Obs.] Shak. 
A kind of short chemisette, worn with a low-necked dress. 
A director (usually one holding a number of directorships) who serves merely or mainly for the fee (in England, often a guinea) paid for attendance. [Colloq.] 
A person in disguise; a masker; a mummer. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
A stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger, and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of catgut, -- played upon with the fingers. 
A capping molding. Same as Cymatium. 
Pertaining to the gula or throat; as, gular plates. See Illust. of Bird, and Bowfin. 
To swallow greedily; to gulp down. [Obs.] 
A flower. See Gold. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Guilder. 
To give the color of gules to. 
The throat; the gullet. [Obs.] Throats so wide and gules so gluttonous. Gauden. 
The tincture red, indicated in seals and engraved figures of escutcheons by parallel vertical lines. Hence, used poetically for a red color or that which is red. His sev'n-fold targe a field of gules did stain In which two swords he bore; his word, "Divide and reign." P. Fletcher. Follow thy drum; With man's blood paint the ground; gules, gules. Shak. Let's march to rest and set in gules, like suns. Beau. & Fl. 
A portion of an ocean or sea extending into the land; a partially land-locked sea; as, the Gulf of Mexico. 
Full of whirlpools or gulfs. Chapman. 
A cement made in India from sea shells, pulverized and mixed with oil, and spread over a ship's bottom, to prevent the boring of worms. 
A glutton. [Obs.] 
To deceive; to cheat; to mislead; to trick; to defraud. The rulgar, gulled into rebellion, armed. Dryden. I'm not gulling him for the emperor's service. Coleridge. 
One of many species of long-winged sea birds of the genus Larus and allied genera. 
One who gulls; a deceiver. 
The tube by which food and drink are carried from the pharynx to the stomach; the esophagus. 
A large knife. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
To wear into a gully or into gullies. 
To flow noisily. [Obs.] Johnson. 
To swallow eagerly, or in large draughts; to swallow up; to take down at one swallow. He does not swallow, but he gulps it down. Cowper. The old man . . . glibly gulped down the whole narrative. Fielding. To gulp up, to throw up from the stomach; to disgorge. 
See Gulf. 
Guilt. See Guilt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Guilty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to gules; red. "Those fatal guly dragons." Milton. 
The dense tissues which invest the teeth, and cover the adjacent parts of the jaws. Gum rash (Med.), strophulus in a teething child; red gum. -- Gum stick, a smooth hard substance for children to bite upon while teething. 
To deepen and enlarge the spaces between the teeth of (a worn saw). See Gummer. 
See Gum tree, below. 
To smear with gum; to close with gum; to unite or stiffen by gum or a gumlike substance; to make sticky with a gumlike substance. He frets likke a gummed velvet.Shak. 
To exude or from gum; to become gummy. 
A small suppurting inflamed spot on the gum. 
A kind of soft tumor, usually of syphilitic origin. 
A punch-cutting tool, or machine for deepening and enlarging the spaces between the teeth of a worn saw. 
Consisting of gum; viscous; adhesive; producing or containing gum; covered with gum or a substance resembling gum. Kindles the gummy bark of fir or pine. Milton. Then rubs his gummy eyes. Dryden. Gummy tumor (Med.), a gumma. 
A dolt; a dunce. [Low.] Holloway. 
A piece of heavy ordnance; in a restricted sense, a cannon. 
To practice fowling or hunting small game; -- chiefly in participial form; as, to go gunning. 
In Sanskrit grammar, a lengthening of the simple vowels a, i, e, by prefixing an a element. The term is sometimes used to denote the same vowel change in other languages. 
See Ganja. 
A small, eel-shaped, marine fish of the genus Murænoides; esp., M. gunnellus of Europe and America; -- called also gunnel fish, butterfish, rock eel. 
That branch of military science which comprehends the theory of projectiles, and the manner of constructing and using ordnance. 
Space left by the removal of ore. 
A whirlpool. [Obs.] The plain, wherein a black bituminous gurge Boils out from under ground. Milton. 
To swallow up. [Obs.] 
To run or flow in a broken, irregular, noisy current, as water from a bottle, or a small stream among pebbles or stones. Pure gurgling rills the lonely desert trace, And waste their music on the savage race. Young. 
The act of gurgling; a broken, bubbling noise. "Tinkling gurgles." W. Thompson. 
A thin balsam or wood oil derived from the Diptcrocarpus lævis, an East Indian tree. It is used in medicine, and as a substitute for linseed oil in the coarser kinds of paint. 
A young person of either sex. [Obs.] See Girl. Chaucer. 
A pickax with one sharp point and one cutting edge. Knight. 
A level; a working. 
An alvine evacuation; also, refuse matter. [Obs. or Local] Holland. 
A small fort. [India] 
A gutter or channel for water, hewn out of the bottom of a working drift. Page. 
Groatts. [Obs.] 
One who gushes. [Colloq.] 
An abatement or mark of dishonor in a coat of arms, resembling a gusset. 
To taste; to have a relish for. [Obs.] 
Nice or keen appreciation or enjoyment; relish; taste; fancy. Dryden. 
Subject to, or characterized by, gusts or squalls; windy; stormy; tempestuous. Upon a raw and gusty day. Shak. 
One of a series of ornaments, in the form of a frustum of a cone, attached to the lower part of the triglyphs, and also to the lower faces of the mutules, in the Doric order; -- called also campana, and drop. Gutta serena Etym: [L., lit. serene or clear drop] (Med.), amaurosis. -- Guttæ band (Arch.), the listel or band from which the guttæ hang. 
To become channeled, as a candle when the flame flares in the wind. 
To put into the gut; to swallow greedily; to gorge; to gormandize. [Obs.] L'Estrange. Dryden. 
Charged or sprinkled with drops. 
A rope, chain, or rod attached to anything to steady it; as: a rope to steady or guide an object which is being hoisted or lowered; a rope which holds in place the end of a boom, spar, or yard in a ship; a chain or wire rope connecting a suspension bridge with the land on either side to prevent lateral swaying; a rod or rope attached to the top of a structure, as of a derrick, and extending obliquely to the ground, where it is fastened. 
To steady or guide with a guy. 
To fool; to baffle; to make (a person) an object of ridicule. [Local & Collog U.S.] 
To guile. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A roundlet of tincture sanguine, which is blazoned without mention of the tincture. 
To swallow liquor greedily; to drink much or frequently. Those that came to guzzle in his wine cellar. Milton. Well-seasoned bowls the gossip's spirits raise, Who, while she guzzles, chats the doctor's praise. Roscommon. To fat the guzzling hogs with floods of whey. Gay. 
To swallow much or often; to swallow with immoderate gust; to drink greedily or continually; as, one who guzzles beer. Dryden. 
An insatiable thing or person. That sink of filth, that guzzle most impure. Marston. 
See Gayal. 
See Gibe. 
To shift from one side of a vessel to the other; -- said of the boom of a fore-and-aft sail when the vessel is steered off the wind until the sail fills on the opposite side. [Also jibe.] 
To guide; to govern. [Obs.] Discreet enough his country for to gye. Chaucer. 
Fermented wort used for making vinegar. Gyle tan (Brewing), a large vat in which wort ferments. 
Same as Gimmal. 
Athletic exercise. [Obs.] Burton. 
To begin [Obs.] See Gin. 
To begin. See Gin. [Obs.] 
A college servant; -- so called in Cambridge, England; at Oxford called a scout. [Cant] 
See Gypsum. [Obs.] Pococke. 
A gypsy. See Gypsy. 
A mineral consisting of the hydrous sulphate of lime (calcium). When calcined, it forms plaster of Paris. Selenite is a transparent, crystalline variety; alabaster, a fine, white, massive variety. 
Pertaining to, or suitable for, gypsies. Gypsy hat, a woman's or child's broad-brimmed hat, usually of straw or felt. -- Gypsy winch, a small winch, which may be operated by a crank, or by a ratchet and pawl through a lever working up and down. 
To play the gypsy; to picnic in the woods. Mostly. Gyp"sy*ing, vb. n. 
Pertaining to a gyrus, or convolution. 
Gyrating. [R.] 
Winding or coiled round; curved into a circle; taking a circular course. 
To revolve round a central point; to move spirally about an axis, as a tornado; to revolve. 
A circular motion, or a circle described by a moving body; a turn or revolution; a circuit. Quick and more quick he spins in giddy gyres. Dryden. Still expanding and ascending gyres. Mrs. Browning. 
To turn round; to gyrate. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. Drayton. 
See Gyrus. 
A turning round. [R.] 
A subordinary of triangular form having one of its angles at the fess point and the opposite aide at the edge of the escutcheon. When there is only one gyron on the shield it is bounded by two linea drawn from the fess point, one horizontally to the dexter side, and one to the dexter chief corner. 
Turned round like a crook, or bent to and fro. Loudon. 
A convoluted ridge between grooves; a convolution; as, the gyri of the brain; the gyri of brain coral. See Brain. 
Guise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Delirious; senselessly extravagant; as, the man is clean gyte. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
A shackle; especially, one to confine the legs; a fetter. [Written also give.] Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves. Shak. With gyves upon his wrist. Hood. 
To fetter; to shackle; to chain. Spenser. I will gyve thee in thine own courtship. Shak. 
The deepsea fishing for cod, ling, and tusk, off the Shetland Isles. 
A sea fish. See Hake. Ash. 
A fog; esp., a fog or mist with a chill wind. [Scot.] T. Chalmers. 
Fit; qualified; also, apt. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The general appearance and manner of life of a living organism. 
Habitableness. 
See Habile. [Obs.] Spenser. 
By chance. [Obs.] 
To cough faintly and frequently, or in a short, broken manner; as, a hacking cough. 
A kick on the shins. T. Hughes. Hack saw, a handsaw having a narrow blade stretched in an iron frame, for cutting metal. 
Hackneyed; hired; mercenary. Wakefield. Hack writer, a hack; one who writes for hire. "A vulgar hack writer." Macaulay. 
A halter consisting of a long leather or rope strap and headstall, -- used for leading or tieing a pack animal. [Western U.S.] 
The chipmunk; also, the chickaree or red squirrel. [U.S.] 
One who, or that which, hacks. Specifically: A cutting instrument for making notches; esp., one used for notching pine trees in collecting turpentine; a hack. 
Having fine, short, and sharp points on the surface; as, the hackly fracture of metallic iron. 
See Have. Had as lief, Had rather, Had better, Had as soon, etc., with a nominative and followed by the infinitive without to, are well established idiomatic forms. The original construction was that of the dative with forms of be, followed by the infinitive. See Had better, under Better. And lever me is be pore and trewe. [And more agreeable to me it is to be poor and true.] C. Mundi (Trans. ). Him had been lever to be syke. [To him it had been preferable to be sick.] Fabian. For him was lever have at his bed's head Twenty bookes, clad in black or red, . . . Than robes rich, or fithel, or gay sawtrie. Chaucer. 
Heather; heath. [Obs.] Burton. 
The haddock. [Scot.] 
The inclination or deviation from the vertical of any mineral vein. 
To deviate from the vertical; -- said of a vein, fault, or lode. 
The nether world (according to classical mythology, the abode of the shades, ruled over by Hades or Pluto); the invisible world; the grave. And death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them. Rev. xx. 13 (Rev. Ver. ). Neither was he left in Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. Acts ii. 31 (Rev. Ver.). And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. Luke xvi.23 (Rev. Ver.). 
The pilgrimage to Mecca, performed by Mohammedans. 
An American herbivorous dinosaur of great size, allied to the iguanodon. It is found in the Cretaceous formation. 
Toward the hæmal side; on the hæmal side of; -- opposed to neurad. 
Pertaining to the blood or blood vessels; also, ventral. See Hemal. 
, 
Same as Hemin. 
A dark brown powder containing iron, prepared by the action of zinc dust as a reducing agent upon the coloring matter of the blood, used medicinally as a hematinic. 
Hove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To stammer; to speak unintelligibly; to prevaricate. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell. 
To set in, or furnish with, a haft; as, to haft a dagger. 
A caviler; a wrangler. [Obs.] Baret. 
An eel-like marine marsipobranch (Myxine glutinosa), allied to the lamprey. It has a suctorial mouth, with labial appendages, and a single pair of gill openings. It is the type of the order Hyperotpeta. Called also hagfish, borer, slime eel, sucker, and sleepmarken. 
To harass; to weary with vexation. How are superstitious men hagged out of their wits with the fancy of omens. L'Estrange. 
A plant of the genus Prunus (P. Padus); the bird cherry. [Scot.] 
A harquebus, of which the but was bent down or hooked for convenience in taking aim. [Written also haguebut and hackbuss.] 
One of several species of sea birds of the genus Puffinus; esp., P. major, the greater shearwarter, and P. Stricklandi, the black hagdon or sooty shearwater; -- called also hagdown, haglin, and hag. See Shearwater. 
Like a hag; lean; ugly. [R.] 
A Scotch pudding made of the heart, liver, lights, etc., of a sheep or lamb, minced with suet, onions, oatmeal, etc., highly seasoned, and boiled in the stomach of the same animal; minced head and pluck. [Written also haggiss, haggess, and haggies.] 
To cut roughly or hack; to cut into small pieces; to notch or cut in an unskillful manner; to make rough or mangle by cutting; as, a boy haggles a stick of wood. Suffolk first died, and York, all haggled o'er, Comes to him, where in gore he lay insteeped. Shak. 
To be difficult in bargaining; to stick at small matters; to chaffer; to higgle. Royalty and science never haggled about the value of blood. Walpole. 
The act or process of haggling. Carlyle. 
Same as Ha. 
A large piece of woolen or cotton cloth worn by Arabs as an outer garment. [Written also hyke.] Heyse. 
The central chapel of the three forming the sanctuary of a Coptic church. It contains the high altar, and is usually closed by an embroidered curtain. 
Small roundish masses of ice precipitated from the clouds, where they are formed by the congelation of vapor. The separate masses or grains are called hailstones. Thunder mixed with hail, Hail mixed with fire, must rend the Egyptian sky. Milton. 
To pour down particles of ice, or frozen vapors. 
To pour forcibly down, as hail. Shak. 
Healthy. See Hale (the preferable spelling). 
An exclamation of respectful or reverent salutation, or, occasionally, of familiar greeting. "Hail, brave friend." Shak. All hail. See in the Vocabulary. -- Hail Mary, a form of prayer made use of in the Roman Catholic Church in invocation of the Virgin. See Ave Maria. 
A wish of health; a salutation; a loud call. "Their puissant hail." M. Arnold. The angel hail bestowed. Milton. 
To greet; to salute. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 
Of hail. "Haily showers." Pope. 
To inclose for mowing; to set aside for grass. "A ground . . . hained in." Holland. 
To inclose for mowing; to set aside for grass. "A ground . . . hained in."  Holland. 
A slender outgrowth from the chitinous cuticle of insects, spiders, crustaceans, and other invertebrates. Such hairs are totally unlike those of vertebrates in structure, composition, and mode of growth. 
Hairy. [Obc.] His hairen shirt and his ascetic diet. J. Taylor. 
Bearing or covered with hair; made of or resembling hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; hirsute. His mantle hairy, and his bonnet sedge. Milton. 
The Egyptian asp or cobra (Naja haje.) It is related to the cobra of India, and like the latter has the power of inflating its neck into a hood. Its bite is very venomous. It is supposed to be the snake by means of whose bite Cleopatra committed suicide, and hence is sometimes called Cleopatra's snake or asp. See Asp. 
A drying shed, as for unburned tile. 
One of several species of marine gadoid fishes, of the genera Phycis, Merlucius, and allies. The common European hake is M. vulgaris; the American silver hake or whiting is M. bilinearis. Two American species (Phycis chuss and P. tenius) are important food fishes, and are also valued for their oil and sounds. Called also squirrel hake, and codling. 
To loiter; to sneak. [Prov. Eng.] 
A wise man; a physician, esp. a Mohammedan. [India] 
A Mohammedan title for a ruler; a judge. [India] 
Sound; entire; healthy; robust; not impaired; as, a hale body. Last year we thought him strong and hale. Swift. 
Welfare. [Obs.] All heedless of his dearest hale. Spenser. 
Etym: [OE. halen, halien; cf. AS. holian, to acquire, get. See Haul.] 
In an equal part or degree; in some paas, half-colored, half done, half-hearted, half persuaded, half conscious. "Half loth and half consenting." Dryden. Their children spoke halfin the speech of Ashdod. Neh. xiii. 24 
To halve. [Obs.] See Halve. Sir H. Wotton. 
Wanting half its due qualities. [Obs.] Spencer. 
Showing only part of the face; wretched looking; meager. Shak. 
Native salt; sodium chloride. 
A nook; a corner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A fee or toll paid for goods sold in a hall. 
See Halloo. 
A loud exclamation; a call to invite attention or to incite a person or an animal; a shout. List! List! I hear Some far off halloo break the silent air. Milton. 
To cry out; to exclaim with a loud voice; to call to a person, as by the word halloo. Country folks hallooed and hooted after me. Sir P. Sidney. 
An exclamation to call attention or to encourage one. 
To make holy; to set apart for holy or religious use; to consecrate; to treat or keep as sacred; to reverence. "Hallowed be thy name." Matt. vi. 9. Hallow the Sabbath day, to do no work therein. Jer. xvii. 24. His secret altar touched with hallowed fire. Milton. In a larger sense . . . we can not hallow this ground [Gettysburg]. A. Lincoln. 
The first, or preaxial, digit of the hind limb, corresponding to the pollux in the fore limb; the great toe; the hind toe of birds. 
Same as Haulm. 
The long jump, with weights in the hands, -- the most important of the exercises of the Pentathlon. 
To form, or surround with, a halo; to encircle with, or as with, a halo. The fire That haloed round his saintly brow. Sothey. 
Surrounded with a halo; invested with an ideal glory; glorified. Some haloed face bending over me. C. Bronté. 
Resembling salt; -- said of certain binary compounds consisting of a metal united to a negative element or radical, and now chiefly applied to the chlorides, bromides, iodides, and sometimes also to the fluorides and cyanides. -- n. 
Helped. [Obs.] 
The neck or throat. [Obs.] Do me hangen by the hals. Chaucer. 
To haul; to hoist. [Obs.] 
See Hawser. Pope. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contraction for holdeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A stop in marching or walking, or in any action; arrest of progress. Without any halt they marched. Clarendon. [Lovers] soon in passion's war contest, Yet in their march soon make a halt. Davenant. 
To cause to cease marching; to stop; as, the general halted his troops for refreshment. 
Halting or stopping in walking; lame. Bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind. Luke xiv. 21. 
The act of limping; lameness. 
One who halts or limps 
A strong strap or cord. Especially: (a) A rope or strap, with or without a headstall, for leading or tying a horse. (b) A rope for hanging malefactors; a noose. Shak. No man e'er felt the halter draw With good opinion of the law. Trumbull. 
To tie by the neck with a rope, strap, or halter; to put a halter on; to subject to a hangman's halter. "A haltered neck." Shak. 
A half. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To join, as two pieces of timber, by cutting away each for half its thickness at the joining place, and fitting together. 
Appearing as if one side, or one half, were cut away; dimidiate. 
pl. of Half. By halves, by one half at once; halfway; fragmentarily; partially; incompletely. I can not believe by halves; either I have faith, or I have it not. J. H. Newman. To go halves. See under Go. 
A saint. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Home. [North of Eng.] Chaucer. 
The region back of the knee joint; the popliteal space; the hock. 
In Turkey and other Oriental countries, a porter or burden bearer; specif., in Western India, a palanquin bearer. 
Hooked; bent at the end into a hook; hamous. 
To hamstring. [Obs.] 
Home. [Scot. & O. Eng.] 
One of the two curved pieces of wood or metal, in the harness of a draught horse, to which the traces are fastened. They are fitted upon the collar, or have pads fitting the horse's neck attached to them. 
Same as Hamele. 
A fossil cephalopod of the genus Hamites, related to the ammonites, but having the last whorl bent into a hooklike form. 
A descendant of Ham, Noah's second son. See Gen. x. 6-20. 
A small village; a little cluster of houses in the country. The country wasted, and the hamlets burned. Dryden. 
That part of a gunlock which strikes the percussion cap, or firing pin; the cock; formerly, however, a piece of steel covering the pan of a flintlock musket and struck by the flint of the cock to ignite the priming. (e) Also, a person of thing that smites or shatters; as, St. Augustine was the hammer of heresies. He met the stern legionaries [of Rome] who had been the "massive iron hammers" of the whole earth. J. H. Newman. Atmospheric hammer, a dead-stroke hammer in which the spring is formed by confined air. -- Drop hammer, Face hammer, etc. See under Drop, Face, etc. -- Hammer fish. See Hammerhead. -- Hammer hardening, the process of hardening metal by hammering it when cold. -- Hammer shell (Zoöl.), any species of Malleus, a genus of marine bivalve shells, allied to the pearl oysters, having the wings narrow and elongated, so as to give them a hammer-shaped outline; -- called also hammer oyster. -- To bring to the hammer, to put up at auction. 
Capable of being formed or shaped by a hammer. Sherwood. 
A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing and carrying of articles; as, a hamper of wine; a clothes hamper; an oyster hamper, which contains two bushels. 
To put in a hamper. 
To put a hamper or fetter on; to shackle; to insnare; to inveigle; hence, to impede in motion or progress; to embarrass; to encumber. "Hampered nerves." Blackmore. A lion hampered in a net. L'Estrange. They hamper and entangle our souls. Tillotson. 
Articles ordinarily indispensable, but in the way at certain times. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Top hamper (Naut.), unnecessary spars and rigging kept aloft. 
A little hook. 
To have; have. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Him thanken all, and thus they han an end. Chaucer. 
A rich goblet, esp. one used on state occasions. [Obs.] 
To raise; to elevate. [Obs.] Lydgate. 
The small part of a gunstock near the lock, which is grasped by the hand in taking aim. 
To furl; -- said of a sail. Totten. To hand down, to transmit in succession, as from father to son, or from predecessor to successor; as, fables are handed down from age to age; to forward to the proper officer (the decision of a higher court); as, the Clerk of the Court of Appeals handed down its decision. -- To hand over, to yield control of; to surrender; to deliver up. 
To coöperate. [Obs.] Massinger. 
One who hands over or transmits; a conveyer in succession. Dryden. 
To use the hands. They have hands, but they handle not. Ps. cxv. 7. 
Capable of being handled. 
Easily managed; obedient to the helm; -- said of a vessel. 
The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula); -- so called because its nest is suspended from the limb of a tree. See Baltimore oriole. 
One who hangs on, or sticks to, a person, place, or service; a dependent; one who adheres to others' society longer than he is wanted. Goldsmith. 
A ring or eye of rope, wood, or iron, attached to the edge of a sail and running on a stay. 
To fasten with a rope, as a gate. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
In a hankering manner. 
See 2d Hanse. 
That part of an elliptical or many-centered arch which has the shorter radius and immediately adjoins the impost. 
An association; a league or confederacy. Hanse towns (Hist.), certain commercial cities in Germany which associated themselves for the protection and enlarging of their commerce. The confederacy, called also Hansa and Hanseatic league, held its first diet in 1260, and was maintained for nearly four hundred years. At one time the league comprised eighty-five cities. Its remnants, Lübeck, Hamburg, and Bremen, are free cities, and are still frequently called Hanse towns. 
See Handsel. 
To clothe; to wrap. The surgeon happed her up carefully. Dr. J. Brown. 
A cloak or plaid. [O. Eng. & Scot.] 
That which happens or comes suddenly or unexpectedly; also, the manner of occurrence or taking place; chance; fortune; accident; casual event; fate; luck; lot. Chaucer. Whether art it was or heedless hap. Spenser. Cursed be good haps, and cursed be they that build Their hopes on haps. Sir P. Sidney. Loving goes by haps: Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps. Shak. 
To happen; to befall; to chance. Chaucer. Sends word of all that haps in Tyre. Shak. 
By hap, chance, luck, or accident; perhaps; it may be. Lest haply ye be found even to fight against God. Acts v. 39. 
Wrapped; covered; cloaked. [Scot.] All happed with flowers in the green wood were. Hogg. 
A large and valuable food fish (Polyprion prognathus) of New Zealand. It sometimes weighs one hundred pounds or more. 
To fatigue; to tire with repeated and exhausting efforts; esp., to weary by importunity, teasing, or fretting; to cause to endure excessive burdens or anxieties; -- sometimes followed by out. [Troops] harassed with a long and wearisome march. Bacon. Nature oppressed and harass'd out with care. Addison. Vext with lawyers and harass'd with debt. Tennyson. 
One who harasses. 
The mansion of a heavenly body. [Obs.] 
To afford lodging to; to enter as guest; to receive; to give a refuge to; indulge or cherish (a thought or feeling, esp. an ill thought). Any place that harbors men. Shak. The bare suspicion made it treason to harbor the person suspected. Bp. Burnet. Let not your gentle breast harbor one thought of outrage. Rowe. 
To lodge, or abide for a time; to take shelter, as in a harbor. For this night let's harbor here in York. Shak. 
To harden; to make hard. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A ford or passage across a river or swamp. 
Made hard, or compact; made unfeeling or callous; made obstinate or obdurate; confirmed in error or vice. 
A South African mullet, salted for food. 
Not sensible to the bit; not easily governed; as, a hard- mouthed horse. 
The refuse or coarse part of fiax; tow. 
A blacksmith's fuller or chisel, having a square shank for insertion into a square hole in an anvil, called the hardy hole. 
To excite; to tease, or worry; to harry. [Obs.] Locke. 
A rodent of the genus Lepus, having long hind legs, a short tail, and a divided upper lip. It is a timid animal, moves swiftly by leaps, and is remarkable for its fecundity. 
The long-tailed duck. See Old Squaw. 
Herring-shaped. 
See Harrier. 
Like a hare. [R.] Huloet. 
To listen; to hearken. [Now rare, except in the imperative form used as an interjection, Hark! listen.] Hudibras. Hark away! Hark back! Hark forward! (Sporting), cries used to incite and guide hounds in hunting. -- To hark back, to go back for a fresh start, as when one has wandered from his direct course, or made a digression. He must have overshot the mark, and must hark back. Haggard. He harked back to the subject. W. E. Norris. 
To hearken. Tennyson. 
The red-breasted merganser. 
Wanton; lewd; low; base. Shak. 
To play the harlot; to practice lewdness. Milton. 
To hurt; to injure; to damage; to wrong. Though yet he never harmed me. Shak. No ground of enmity between us known Why he should mean me ill or seek to harm. Milton. 
A kind of rue (Ruta sylvestris) growing in India. At Lahore the seeds are used medicinally and for fumigation. 
The brains. [Scot.] 
A constellation; Lyra, or the Lyre. 
To play on, as a harp; to play (a tune) on the harp; to develop or give expression to by skill and art; to sound forth as from a harp; to hit upon. Thou 'harped my fear aright. Shak. 
A genus of marine univalve shells; the harp shells; -- so called from the form of the shells, and their ornamental ribs. 
Pertaining to the harp; as, harping symphonies. Milton. 
A fabulous winged monster, ravenous and filthy, having the face of a woman and the body of a vulture, with long claws, and the face pale with hunger. Some writers mention two, others three. Both table and provisions vanished guite. With sound of harpies' wings and talons heard. Milton. 
A hinge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An obstacle formed by turning an ordinary harrow upside down, the frame being buried. Bush harrow, a kind of light harrow made of bushes, for harrowing grass lands and covering seeds, or to finish the work of a toothed harrow. -- Drill harrow. See under 6th Drill. -- Under the harrow, subjected to actual torture with a toothed instrument, or to great affliction or oppression. 
Help! Halloo! An exclamation of distress; a call for succor;- the ancient Norman hue and cry. "Harrow and well away!" Spenser. Harrow! alas! here lies my fellow slain. Chaucer. 
To pillage; to harry; to oppress. [Obs.] Spenser. Meaning thereby to harrow his people. Bacon 
To make a predatory incursion; to plunder or lay waste. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
Having violent contrasts of color, or of light and shade; lacking in harmony. 
A stag; the male of the red deer. See the Note under Buck. Goodliest of all the forest, hart and hind. Milton. 
To hearten; to encourage; to incite. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To draw; to drag; to carry off by vio [Obs.] Chaucer. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. 
Hazard. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Haze, v. t. 
To as, to hash meat. Hudibras. 
A basket made of rushes or flags, as for carrying fish. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The edible viscera, as the heart, liver, etc., of a beast, esp. of a hog. [Written also harslet.] 
To shut or fasten with a hasp. 
, 2d pers. sing. pres. of. Fave, contr. of havest. [Archaic] 
To hasten; to hurry. [Archaic] I 'll haste the writer. Shak. They were troubled and hasted away. Ps. xlviii. 5. 
To press; to drive or urge forward; to push on; to precipitate; to accelerate the movement of; to expedite; to hurry. I would hasten my escape from the windy storm. Ps. lv. 8. 
To move celerity; to be rapid in motion; to act speedily or quickly; to go quickly. I hastened to the spot whence the noise came. D 
Hasty. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- Has"tif*ly, adv. [Obs.] 
Proceeding from, or indicating, a quick temper. Take no unkindness of his hasty words. Shak 
Hot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
sing. pres. of Hote to be called. Cf. Hatte. [Obs.] "That one hat abstinence." Piers Plowman. 
A covering for the head; esp., one with a crown and brim, made of various materials, and worn by men or women for protecting the head from the sun or weather, or for ornament. Hat block, a block on which hats are formed or dressed. -- To pass around the hat, to take up a collection of voluntary contributions, which are often received in a hat. [Collog.] Lowell. 
A box for a hat. 
To produce young; -- said of eggs; to come forth from the egg; -- said of the young of birds, fishes, insects, etc. 
An opening into, or in search of, a mine. Booby hatch, Buttery hatch, Companion hatch, etc. See under Booby, Buttery, etc. -- To batten down the hatches (Naut.), to lay tarpaulins over them, and secure them with battens. -- To be under hatches, to be confined below in a vessel; to be under arrest, or in slavery, distress, etc. 
To close with a hatch or hatches. 'T were not amiss to keep our door hatched. Shak 
To love less, relatively. Luke xiv. 26. 
Strong aversion coupled with desire that evil should befall the person toward whom the feeling is directed; as exercised toward things, intense dislike; hatred; detestation; -- opposed to love. For in a wink the false love turns to hate. Tennyson. 
Hateful; detestable. [Obs.] 
One who hates. An enemy to God, and a hater of all good. Sir T. Browne. 
Has. [Archaic.] 
Strong aversion; intense dislike; hate; an affection of the mind awakened by something regarded as evil. 
pres. & imp. sing. & pl. of Hote, to be called. See Hote. [Obs.] Chaucer. A full perilous place, purgatory it hatte. Piers Plowman. 
Covered with a hat. 
To tire or worry; -- out. [Obs.] Dryden. 
One who makes or sells hats. 
A low-lying meadow by the side of a river. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] On a haugh or level plain, near to a royal borough. Sir W. Scott. 
High; elevated; hence, haughty; proud. [Obs.] Shak. 
To change the direction of a ship by hauling the wind. See under Haul, v. t. I . . . hauled up for it, and found it to be an island. Cook. 
A bundle of about four hundred threads, to be tarred. 
One who hauls. 
The denuded stems or stalks of such crops as buckwheat and the cereal grains, beans, etc.; straw. 
A part of a harness; a hame. 
See Hals. 
See Halse. 
Lofty; haughty. [Obs.] Through support of countenance proud and hault. Spenser. 
See Haulm, stalk. Smart. 
To enhance. [Obs.] Lydgate. 
Having haunches. 
To persist in staying or visiting. I've charged thee not to haunt about my doors. Shak. 
Inhabited by, or subject to the visits of, apparitions; frequented by a ghost. All houses wherein men have lived and died Are haunted houses. Longfellow. 
A large sturgeon (Acipenser huso) from the region of the Black Sea. It is sometimes twelve feet long. 
A kind of graduated breech sight for a small arm, or a cannon. 
Haughty. [Obs.] "Nations proud and haut." Milton. 
Of or pertaining to Havana, the capital of the island of Cuba; as, an Havana cigar; -- formerly sometimes written Havannah. -- n. 
Having little or nothing. [Obs.] Gower. 
To shelter, as in a haven. Keats. 
A possessor; a holder. Shak. 
The oat; oats. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Haver bread, oaten bread. -- Haver cake, oaten cake. Piers Plowman. -- Haver grass, the wild oat. -- Haver meal, oatmeal. 
To maunder; to talk foolishly; to chatter. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
A castrated deer. 
Possession; goods; estate. I 'll lend you something; my having is not much. Shak. 
Behavior; demeanor. [Obs.] Shak. 
Wide and general destruction; devastation; waste. As for Saul, he made havoc of the church. Acts viii. 3. Ye gods, what havoc does ambition make Among your works! Addison. 
To devastate; to destroy; to lay waste. To waste and havoc yonder world. Milton. 
A cry in war as the signal for indiscriminate slaughter. Toone. Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt With modest warrant. Shak. Cry 'havoc,' and let slip the dogs of war! Shak. 
The third eyelid, or nictitating membrane. See Nictitating membrane, under Nictitate. 
An intermission or hesitation of speech, with a sound somewhat like haw! also, the sound so made. "Hums or haws." Congreve. 
To stop, in speaking, with a sound like haw; to speak with interruption and hesitation. Cut it short; don't prose -- don't hum and haw. Chesterfield. 
To turn to the near side, or toward the driver; -- said of cattle or a team: a word used by teamsters in guiding their teams, and most frequently in the imperative. See Gee. To haw and gee, or To haw and gee about, to go from one thing to another without good reason; to have no settled purpose; to be irresolute or unstable. [Colloq.] 
To cause to turn, as a team, to the near side, or toward the driver; as, to haw a team of oxen. To haw and gee, or To haw and gee about, to lead this way and that at will; to lead by the nose; to master or control. [Colloq.] 
To laugh boisterously. [Colloq. U. S.] We haw-haw'd, I tell you, for more than half an hour. Major Jack Downing. 
One of numerous species and genera of rapacious birds of the family Falconidæ. They differ from the true falcons in lacking the prominent tooth and notch of the bill, and in having shorter and less pointed wings. Many are of large size and grade into the eagles. Some, as the goshawk, were formerly trained like falcons. In a more general sense the word is not infrequently applied, also, to true falcons, as the sparrow hawk, pigeon hawk, duck hawk, and prairie hawk. 
To clear the throat with an audible sound by forcing an expiratory current of air through the narrow passage between the depressed soft palate and the root of the tongue, thus aiding in the removal of foreign substances. 
To raise by hawking, as phlegm. 
An effort to force up phlegm from the throat, accompanied with noise. 
To offer for sale by outcry in the street; to carry (merchandise) about from place to place for sale; to peddle; as, to hawk goods or pamphlets. His works were hawked in every street. Swift. 
A small board, with a handle on the under side, to hold mortar. Hawk boy, an attendant on a plasterer to supply him with mortar. 
Curved like a hawk's bill; crooked. 
One who sells wares by crying them in the street; hence, a peddler or a packman. 
To sell goods by outcry in the street. [Obs.] Hudibras. 
A falconer. 
See Hockey. Holloway. 
See Haulm, straw. 
To lounge; to loiter. [Prov. Eng.] Tennyson. 
A large rope made of three strands each containing many yarns. 
To lay snares for rabbits. Huloet. 
Grass cut and cured for fodder. Make hay while the sun shines. Camden. Hay may be dried too much as well as too little. C. L. Flint. Hay cap, a canvas covering for a haycock. -- Hay fever (Med.), nasal catarrh accompanied with fever, and sometimes with paroxysms of dyspnoea, to which some persons are subject in the spring and summer seasons. It has been attributed to the effluvium from hay, and to the pollen of certain plants. It is also called hay asthma, hay cold, and rose fever. -- Hay knife, a sharp instrument used in cutting hay out of a stack or mow. -- Hay press, a press for baling loose hay. -- Hay tea, the juice of hay extracted by boiling, used as food for cattle, etc. -- Hay tedder, a machine for spreading and turning newmown hay. See Tedder. 
To cut and cure grass for hay. 
A frame mounted on the running gear of a wagon, and used in hauling hay, straw, sheaves, etc.; -- called also hay rigging. 
Holing a ball, whether the object ball (winning hazard) or the player's ball (losing hazard). 
To try the chance; to encounter risk or danger. Shak. 
Light vapor or smoke in the air which more or less impedes vision, with little or no dampness; a lack of transparency in the air; hence, figuratively, obscurity; dimness. O'er the sky The silvery haze of summer drawn. Tennyson. Above the world's uncertain haze. Keble. 
To be hazy, or tick with haze. Ray. 
A shrub or small tree of the genus Corylus, as the C. avellana, bearing a nut containing a kernel of a mild, farinaceous taste; the filbert. The American species are C. Americana, which produces the common hazelnut, and C. rostrata. See Filbert. Gray. 
Destitute of haze. Tyndall. 
In a hazy manner; mistily; obscurely; confusedly. 
To make dry; to dry. [Obs.] 
A variant of -hood. 
Tiles laid at the eaves of a house. Knight. 
Principal; chief; leading; first; as, the head master of a school; the head man of a tribe; a head chorister; a head cook. 
Pain in the head; ceph "Headaches and shivering fits." Macaulay. 
With the head foremost. 
To cover, as a roof, with tiles, slate, lead, or the like. [Obs.] 
To grow sound; to return to a sound state; as, the limb heals, or the wound heals; -- sometimes with up or over; as, it will heal up, or over. Those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves. Shak. 
Health. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A heddle. Ure. 
One who, or that which, heals. 
In health; wholesomely. 
The afterbirth or secundines of a beast. 
One who heaps, piles, or amasses. 
Lying in heaps. Gay. 
imp. & p. p. of Hear. 
One who hears; an auditor. 
A hind in the year of its age. [Eng.] Wright. 
To inclose in a hearse; to entomb. [Obs.] "Would she were hearsed at my foot." Shak. 
A hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood. Why does my blood thus muster to my heart! Shak. 
To give heart to; to hearten; to encourage; to inspirit. [Obs.] My cause is hearted; thine hath no less reason. Shak. 
To form a compact center or heart; as, a hearting cabbage. 
The floor of a furnace, on which the material to be heated lies, or the lowest part of a melting furnace, into which the melted material settles. Hearth ends (Metal.), fragments of lead ore ejected from the furnace by the blast. -- Hearth money, Hearth penny Etym: [AS. heoredhpening], a tax formerly laid in England on hearths, each hearth (in all houses paying the church and poor rates) being taxed at two shillings; -- called also chimney money, etc. He had been importuned by the common people to relieve them from the . . . burden of the hearth money. Macaulay. 
Comrade; boon companion; good fellow; -- a term of familiar address and fellowship among sailors. Dickens. 
Heated; as, the iron though heat red-hot. [Obs. or Archaic.] Shak. 
Clad or crowned with heath. 
Full of heath; abounding with heath; as, heathy land; heathy hills. Sir W. Scott. 
A horizontal dislocation in a metallic lode, taking place at an intersection with another lode. 
To place in happiness or bliss, as if in heaven; to beatify. [R.] We are happy as the bird whose nest Is heavened in the hush of purple hills. G. Massey. 
A bar used as a lever. Totten. 
A disease of horses, characterized by difficult breathing, with heaving of the flank, wheezing, flatulency, and a peculiar cough; broken wind. 
Having the heaves. 
, adv. Heavily; -- sometimes used in composition; as, heavy- laden. 
To make heavy. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
The goddess of youth, daughter of Jupiter and Juno. She was believed to have the power of restoring youth and beauty to those who had lost them. 
Ebony. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Dull; stupid. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to the Hebrews; as, the Hebrew language or rites. 
An apparatus for separating the threads of warps into sets, as they are wound upon the reel from the bobbins, in a warping machine. 
Same as Hackle. 
Hectic fever. 
A bully; a blustering, turbulent, insolent, fellow; one who vexes or provokes. 
To treat with insolence; to threaten; to bully; hence, to torment by words; to tease; to taunt; to worry or irritate by bullying. Dryden. 
To play the bully; to bluster; to be turbulent or insolent. Swift. 
One of the sets of parallel doubled threads which, with mounting, compose the harness employed to guide the warp threads to the lathe or batten in a loom. 
To draw (the warp thread) through the heddle-eyes, in weaving. 
A thicket of bushes, usually thorn bushes; especially, such a thicket planted as a fence between any two portions of land; and also any sort of shrubbery, as evergreens, planted in a line or as a fence; particularly, such a thicket planted round a field to fence it, or in rows to separate the parts of a garden. The roughest berry on the rudest hedge. Shak. Through the verdant maze Of sweetbrier hedges I pursue my walk. Thomson. 
To reduce the risk of a wager by making a bet against the side or chance one has bet on. 
One who makes or mends hedges; also, one who hedges, as, in betting. 
To mind; to regard with care; to take notice of; to attend to; to observe. With pleasure Argus the musician heeds. Dryden. 
To mind; to consider. 
Full of heed; regarding with care; cautious; circumspect; attentive; vigilant. Shak. -- Heed"ful*ly, adv. -- Heed"ful*ness, n. 
Heedful. [Obs.] "Heedy shepherds." Spenser. -- Heed"i*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Heed"i*ness, n. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To lean or tip to one side, as a ship; as, the ship heels aport; the boat heeled over when the squall struck it. Heeling error (Naut.), a deviation of the compass caused by the heeling of an iron vessel to one side or the other. 
Management by the heel, especially the spurred heel; as, the horse understands the heel well. 
A composition of wax and lampblack, used by shoemakers for polishing, and by antiquaries in copying inscriptions. 
Without a heel. 
The hip of the dog-rose. [Obs.] 
A yarn measure of six hundred yards or of a spindle. See Spindle. 
Hair. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Haft, n. [Obs.] Waller. 
Moderately heavy. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A hedge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The flight of Mohammed from Mecca, September 13, A. D. 622 (subsequently established as the first year of the Moslem era); hence, any flight or exodus regarded as like that of Mohammed. 
A young cow. 
One who, or that which, heightens. 
To inherit; to succeed to. [R.] One only daughter heired the royal state. Dryden. 
See Hegira. 
imp. & p. p. of Hold. 
Health; welfare. [Obs.] "In joy and perfyt hele." Chaucer. 
To hide; to cover; to roof. [Obs.] Hide and hele things. Chaucer. 
See St. Elmo's fire, under Saint. 
Heliacal. 
A gaseous element found in the atmospheres of the sun and earth and in some rare minerals. 
A nonplane curve whose tangents are all equally inclined to a given plane. The common helix is the curve formed by the thread of the ordinary screw. It is distinguished from the spiral, all the convolutions of which are in the plane. 
To overwhelm. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See Halloo. 
Hellish. Anderson (1573). 
See Haulm, straw. 
The apparatus by which a ship is steered, comprising rudder, tiller, wheel, etc.; -- commonly used of the tiller or wheel alone. 
To steer; to guide; to direct. [R.] The business he hath helmed. Shak. A wild wave . . . overbears the bark, And him that helms it. Tennyson. 
To cover or furnish with a helm or helmet. [Perh. used only as a past part. or part. adj.] She that helmed was in starke stours. Chaucer. 
Covered with a helmet. The helmed cherubim Are seen in glittering ranks. Milton. 
A defensive covering for the head. See Casque, Headpiece, Morion, Sallet, and Illust. of Beaver. 
A slave in ancient Sparta; a Spartan serf; hence, a slave or serf. Those unfortunates, the Helots of mankind, more or less numerous in every community. I. Taylor. 
To lend aid or assistance; to contribute strength or means; to avail or be of use; to assist. A generous present helps to persuade, as well as an agreeable person. Garth. To help out, to lend aid; to bring a supply. 
One who, or that which, helps, aids, assists, or relieves; as, a lay helper in a parish. Thou art the helper of the fatherless. Ps. x. 14. Compassion . . . oftentimes a helper of evils. Dr. H. More. 
To furnish with a helve, as an ax. 
Them [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An onomatopoetic word used as an expression of hesitation, doubt, etc. It is often a sort of voluntary half cough, loud or subdued, and would perhaps be better expressed by hm. Cough or cry hem, if anybody come. Shak. 
An utterance or sound of the voice, hem or hm, often indicative of hesitation or doubt, sometimes used to call attention. "His morning hems." Spectator. 
To make the sound expressed by the word hem; hence, to hesitate in speaking. "Hem, and stroke thy beard." Shak. 
Same as Hæma-. 
Relating to the blood or blood vessels; pertaining to, situated in the region of, or on the side with, the heart and great blood vessels; -- opposed to neural. 
See Hæma-. 
A substance, in the form of reddish brown, microscopic, prismatic crystals, formed from dried blood by the action of strong acetic acid and common salt; -- called also Teichmann's crystals. Chemically, it is a hydrochloride of hematin. 
A measure of half a sextary. Arbuthnot. 
A shed or hovel for cattle. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
One who, or that which, hems with a needle. Specifically: (a) An attachment to a sewing machine, for turning under the edge of a piece of fabric, preparatory to stitching it down. (b) A tool for turning over the edge of sheet metal to make a hem. 
A plant of the genus Cannabis (C. sativa), the fibrous skin or bark of which is used for making cloth and cordage. The name is also applied to various other plants yielding fiber. 
Like hemp. [R.] Howell. 
The roebuck in its third year. [Prov. Eng.] 
The female of the domestic fowl; also, the female of grouse, pheasants, or any kind of birds; as, the heath hen; the gray hen. 
A weed of the genus Lamium (L. amplexicaule) with deeply crenate leaves. 
To send away. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 
A plane figure of eleven sides and eleven angles. [Written also endecagon.] 
See Hende. 
Hence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Hung. Chaucer. 
A thorny tree or shrub of the genus Lawsonia (L. alba). The fragrant white blossoms are used by the Buddhists in religious ceremonies. The powdered leaves furnish a red coloring matter used in the East to stain the hails and fingers, the manes of horses, etc. 
Hence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The unit of electric induction; the induction in a circuit when the electro-motive force induced in this circuit is one volt, while the inducing current varies at the rate of one ampère a second. 
To seize; to lay hold on; to catch; to get. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Spenser. This cursed Jew him hente and held him fast. Chaucer. But all that he might of his friendes hente On bookes and on learning he it spente. Chaucer. 
See Hip, the fruit of the dog-rose. 
Liver of sulphur; a substance of a liver-brown color, sometimes used in medicine. It is formed by fusing sulphur with carbonates of the alkalies (esp. potassium), and consists essentially of alkaline sulphides. Called also hepar sulphuris (. 
Neat; fit; comfortable. [Obs.] 
A young salmon; a parr. 
A combining form from Gr. "epta`, seven. 
An atom which has a valence of seven, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, seven monad atoms or radicals; as, iodine is a heptad in iodic acid. Also used as an adjective. 
A compound radical, C7H15, regarded as the essential radical of heptane and a related series of compounds. 
The form of the objective and the possessive case of the personal pronoun she; as, I saw her with her purse out. 
An officer whose business was to denounce or proclaim war, to challenge to battle, to proclaim peace, and to bear messages from the commander of an army. He was invested with a sacred and inviolable character. 
To introduce, or give tidings of, as by a herald; to proclaim; to announce; to foretell; to usher in. Shak. 
A herald. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to herbs; having the nature, texture, or characteristics, of an herb; as, herbaceous plants; an herbaceous stem. 
Of or pertaining to herbs. Quarles. 
The knowledge of herbs. 
An herb. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A garden; a pleasure garden. [Obs.] "Into an herber green." Chaucer. 
Covered with herbs. [Obs.] Bailey. 
Having the nature of, pertaining to, or covered with, herbs or herbage. "Herby valleys." Chapman. 
Haired. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who herds or assembles domestic animals; a herdsman; -- much used in composition; as, a shepherd; a goatherd, and the like. Chaucer. 
To form or put into a herd. 
A herdsman. [R.] 
A kind of low-hung cab. 
Hair. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In time to come; in some future time or state. Hereafter he from war shall come. Dryden. 
State of being hereditable. Brydges. 
In this. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. John xv. 8. 
Made of hair. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of this; concerning this; from this; hence. Hereof comes it that Prince Harry is valiant. Shak. 
On or upon this; hereupon. 
Religious opinion opposed to the authorized doctrinal standards of any particular church, especially when tending to promote schism or separation; lack of orthodox or sound belief; rejection of, or erroneous belief in regard to, some fundamental religious doctrine or truth; heterodoxy. Doubts 'mongst divines, and difference of texts, From whence arise diversity of sects, And hateful heresies by God abhor'd. Spenser. Deluded people! that do not consider that the greatest heresy in the world is a wicked life. Tillotson. 
To this; hereunto. Hooker. 
To praise; to worship. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Formerly, a payment or tribute of arms or military accouterments, or the best beast, or chattel, due to the lord on the death of a tenant; in modern use, a customary tribute of goods or chattels to the lord of the fee, paid on the decease of a tenant. Blackstone. Bouvier. Heriot custom, a heriot depending on usage. -- Heriot service (Law), a heriot due by reservation in a grant or lease of lands. Spelman. Blackstone. 
Same as Harl, 2. 
See Hermes, 
See Mercury. 
A celebrated French wine, both white and red, of the Department of Drôme. 
A heron; esp., the common European heron. "A stately hern." Trench. 
A corner. [Obs.] Lurking in hernes and in lanes blind. Chaucer. 
A protrusion, consisting of an organ or part which has escaped from its natural cavity, and projects through some natural or accidental opening in the walls of the latter; as, hernia of the brain, of the lung, or of the bowels. Hernia of the abdominal viscera in most common. Called also rupture. Strangulated hernia, a hernia so tightly compressed in some part of the channel through which it has been protruded as to arrest its circulation, and produce swelling of the protruded part. It may occur in recent or chronic hernia, but is more common in the latter. 
An illustrious man, supposed to be exalted, after death, to a place among the gods; a demigod, as Hercules. 
Larger than life size, but smaller than colossal; -- said of the representation of a human figure. Heroic Age, the age when the heroes, or those called the children of the gods, are supposed to have lived. -- Heroic poetry, that which celebrates the deeds of a hero; epic poetry. -- Heroic treatment or remedies (Med.), treatment or remedies of a severe character, suited to a desperate case. -- Heroic verse (Pros.), the verse of heroic or epic poetry, being in English, German, and Italian the iambic of ten syllables; in French the iambic of twelve syllables; and in classic poetry the hexameter. 
Any wading bird of the genus Ardea and allied genera, of the family Ardeidæ. The herons have a long, sharp bill, and long legs and toes, with the claw of the middle toe toothed. The common European heron (Ardea cinerea) is remarkable for its directly ascending flight, and was formerly hunted with the larger falcons. 
An eruption of the skin, taking various names, according to its form, or the part affected; especially, an eruption of vesicles in small distinct clusters, accompanied with itching or tingling, including shingles, ringworm, and the like; -- so called from its tendency to creep or spread from one part of the skin to another. 
A title of respect given to gentlemen in Germany, equivalent to the English Mister. 
See the Note under Her, pr. 
Rehearsal. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A kind of gate or portcullis, having iron bars, like a harrow, studded with iron spikes. It is hung above gateways so that it may be quickly lowered, to impede the advance of an enemy. Farrow. 
Same as Hearse, v. t. Chapman. 
A hart. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A heart. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To worship; to glorify; to praise. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
A member of the highest rank of nobility in Germany and Austria, corresponding to the British duke. 
A measure of two hanks of linen thread. [Scot.] [Written also hasp.] Knight. 
The evening; Hesperus. 
Command; precept; injunction. [Archaic] See Behest. "At thy hest." Shak. Let him that yields obey the victor's hest. Fairfax. Yet I thy hest will all perform, at full. Tennyson. 
Variant of Hote. [Obs.] But one avow to greate God I hete. Chaucer. 
A Cossack headman or general. The title of chief hetman is now held by the heir to the throne of Russia. 
Variant of Huke. [Obs.] 
The head. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Destruction by cutting down. [Obs.] Of whom he makes such havoc and such hew. Spenser. 
A domestic servant; a retainer. [Obs.] "False homely hewe." Chaucer. 
One who hews. 
A prefix or combining form, used to denote six, sixth, etc.; as, hexatomic, hexabasic. 
An atom whose valence is six, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, six monad atoms or radicals; as, sulphur is a hexad in sulphuric acid. Also used as an adjective. 
A series of six numbers. 
Any one of five hydrocarbons, C6H14, of the paraffin series. They are colorless, volatile liquids, and are so called because the molecule has six carbon atoms. 
Same as Hexylene. 
A hydrocarbon, C6H10, of the acetylene series, obtained artificially as a colorless, volatile, pungent liquid; -- called also hexoylene. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, hexane; as, hexoic acid. 
A liquid hydrocarbon, C6H8, of the valylene series, obtained from distillation products of certain fats and gums. 
Any member of a group of sugars containing six carbon atoms in the molecule. Some are widely distributed in nature, esp. in ripe fruits. 
A compound radical, C6H13, regarded as the essential residue of hexane, and a related series of compounds. 
High. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An expression of frolic and exultation, and sometimes of wonder. B. Jonson. 
The time of triumph and exultation; hence, joy, high spirits, frolicsomeness; wildness. The heyday in the blood is tame. Shak. In the heyday of their victories. J. H. Newman. 
A wretch; a rascal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Hence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The concurrence of two vowels in two successive words or syllables. Pope. 
See Hiccough. 
imp. & p. p. of Hide. See Hidden. 
A tax formerly paid to the kings of England for every hide of land. [Written also hydage.] 
from Hide. Concealed; put out of view; secret; not known; mysterious. Hidden fifths or octaves (Mus.), consecutive fifths or octaves, not sounded, but suggested or implied in the parallel motion of two parts towards a fifth or an octave. 
To lie concealed; to keep one's self out of view; to be withdrawn from sight or observation. Bred to disguise, in public 'tis you hide. Pope. Hide and seek, a play of children, in which some hide themselves, and others seek them. Swift. 
To flog; to whip. [Prov. Eng. & Low, U. S.] 
One who hides or conceals. 
The act of hiding or concealing, or of withholding from view or knowledge; concealment. There was the hiding of his power. Hab. iii. 4. 
A flogging. [Colloq.] Charles Reade. 
To hasten; to go in haste; -- also often with the reciprocal pronoun. [Rare, except in poetry] "My husband hies him home." Shak. The youth, returning to his mistress, hies. Dryden. 
Haste; diligence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Winter. Shak. 
A consecrateo place; esp., a temple. 
In confusion; topsy-turvy. [Colloq.] Johnson. 
To hie. [Obs.] Men must high them apace, and make haste. Holland. 
Strong-scented; slightly tainted; as, epicures do not cook game before it is high. 
In a high manner; in a high place; to a great altitude; to a great degree; largely; in a superior manner; eminently; powerfully. "And reasoned high." Milton. "I can not reach so high." Shak. 
The highest card dealt or drawn. High, low, jack, and the game, a game at cards; -- also called all fours, old sledge, and seven up. -- In high and low, utterly; completely; in every respect. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- On high, aloft; above. The dayspring from on high hath visited us. Luke i. 78. -- The Most High, the Supreme Being; God. 
To rise; as, the sun higheth. [Obs.] 
In a high manner, or to a high degree; very much; as, highly esteemed. 
A variant of Height. 
That which heightens. 
Variant of Height. [Obs.] 
See Eagre. [Obs.] Drayton. 
To hike one's self; specif., to go with exertion or effort; to tramp; to march laboriously. [Dial. or Colloq.] "If you persist in heaving and hiking like this."  Kipling. 
To move with a swing, toss, throw, jerk, or the like. [Dial. or Colloq.] 
The act of hiking; a tramp; a march. [Dial. or Colloq.] 
Of or pertaining to a hilum. 
Belonging to the hilum. 
To hide. See Hele. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Hilum. 
To surround with earth; to heap or draw earth around or upon; as, to hill corn. Showing them how to plant and hill it. Palfrey. 
Having a hilt; -- used in composition; as, basket-hilted, cross-hilted. 
The eye of a bean or other seed; the mark or scar at the point of attachment of an ovule or seed to its base or support; -- called also hile. 
Same as Hilum, 2. 
Them. See Hem. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The objective case of he. See He. Him that is weak in the faith receive. Rom. xiv. 1. Friends who have given him the most sympathy. Thackeray. 
A hymn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing three quarts, one pint, one gill, English measure. W. H. Ward. 
The female of the red deer, of which the male is the stag. 
In the rear; -- opposed to front; of or pertaining to the part or end which follows or is behind, in opposition to the part which leads or is before; as, the hind legs or hind feet of a quadruped; the hind man in a procession. 
Of or belonging to that part or end which is in the rear, or which follows; as, the hinder part of a wagon; the hinder parts of a horse. He was in the hinder part of the ship. Mark iv. 38. 
To interpose obstacles or impediments; to be a hindrance. This objection hinders not but that the heroic action of some commander . . . may be written. Dryden. 
The name given by Europeans to that form of the Hindustani language which is chiefly spoken by native Hindoos. In employs the Devanagari character, in which Sanskrit is written. Whitworth. 
Same as Hindoo. 
A servant; a farm laborer; a peasant; a hind. [Obs.] Bailiff, herd, nor other hine. Chaucer. 
To stand, depend, hang, or turn, as on a hinge; to depend chiefly for a result or decision or for force and validity; -- usually with on or upon; as, the argument hinges on this point. I. Taylor 
Furnished with hinges. 
A reaping hook. Knight. 
A hybrid between a stallion and an ass. 
A term of endearment; darling; -- corrupted from honey. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
To bring to mind by a slight mention or remote allusion; to suggest in an indirect manner; as, to hint a suspicion. Just hint a fault and hesitate dislike. Pope. 
To make an indirect reference, suggestion, or allusion; to allude vaguely to something. We whisper, and hint, and chuckle. Tennyson. To hint at, to allude to lightly, indirectly, or cautiously. 
A remote allusion; slight mention; intimation; insinuation; a suggestion or reminder, without a full declaration or explanation; also, an occasion or motive. Our hint of woe Is common. Shak. The hint malevolent, the look oblique. Hannah M 
The external angle formed by the meeting of two sloping sides or skirts of a roof, which have their wall plates running in different directions. 
The fruit of a rosebush, especially of the English dog-rose (Rosa canina). [Written also hop, hep.] Hip tree (Bot.), the dog- rose. 
Used to excite attention or as a signal; as, hip, hip, hurra! 
To throw by means of a hipe. -- Hip"er (#), n. 
See Here, pron. Chaucer. 
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mutton suet; -- applied by Chevreul to an oily acid which was obtained from mutton suet, and to which he attributed the peculiar taste and smell of that substance. The substance has also been called hircin. Watts. 
Hircic acid. See Hircic. [R.] 
See Here, pron. Chaucer. 
A bailment by which the use of a thing, or the services and labor of a person, are contracted for at a certain price or reward. Story. 
Without hire. Davenant. 
One who hires. 
A genus of leeches, including the common medicinal leech. See Leech. 
A soft black, iron ore, nearly earthy, a hydrous silicate of iron. 
Beset with stiff hairs or bristles. 
With a hissing sound. 
Hush; be silent; -- a signal for silence. Milton. 
It. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Hide, contracted from hideth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To take up, or replace by a piece belonging to the opposing player; -- said of a single unprotected piece on a point. To hit off, to describe with quick characteristic strokes; as, to hit off a speaker. Sir W. Temple. -- To hit out, to perform by good luck. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A striking of the ball; as, a safe hit; a foul hit; -- sometimes used specifically for a base hit. Base hit, Safe hit, Sacrifice hit. (Baseball) See under Base, Safe, etc. 
having become very popular or acclaimed; -- said of entertainment performances; as, a hit record, a hit movie. 
A knot or noose in a rope which can be readily undone; -- intended for a temporary fastening; as, a half hitch; a clove hitch; a timber hitch, etc. 
A port or small haven; -- used in composition; as, Lambhithe, now Lambeth. Pennant. 
Nearest on this side. Sir M. Hale. 
One who hits or strikes; as, a hard hitter. 
To take shelter or lodgings together; to reside in a collective body. Pope. 
One who collects bees into a hive. 
To hiss. [Obs.] Shak. 
Hoariness; antiquity. [R.] Covered with the awful hoar of innumerable ages. Burke. 
To become moldy or musty. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Hoarding, 2. Smart. 
A store, stock, or quantity of anything accumulated or laid up; a hidden supply; a treasure; as, a hoard of provisions; a hoard of money. 
To collect and lay up; to amass and deposit in secret; to store secretly, or for the sake of keeping and accumulating; as, to hoard grain. 
To lay up a store or hoard, as of money. To hoard for those whom he did breed. Spenser. 
Moldy; musty. [Obs.] Granmer. 
With a harsh, grating sound or voice. 
Of a pale silvery gray. 
A deception for mockery or mischief; a deceptive trick or story; a practical joke. Macaulay. 
To deceive by a story or a trick, for sport or mischief; to impose upon sportively. Lamb. 
One who hoaxes. 
A remarkable South American bird (Opisthocomus cristatus); the crested touraco. By some zoölogists it is made the type of a distinct order (Opisthocomi). 
A threaded and fluted hardened steel cutter, resembling a tap, used in a lathe for forming the teeth of screw chasers, worm wheels, etc. 
Same as Hobnob. Tennyson. 
A low bush (Viburnum lantanoides) having long, straggling branches and handsome flowers. It is found in the Northern United States. Called also shinhopple. 
Rough; uneven; causing one to hobble; as a hobbly road. 
A small, strong-winged European falcon (Falco subbuteo), formerly trained for hawking. 
A small mortar on a gun carriage, in use before the howitzer. 
Familiar, social intercourse. W. Black. 
A professional tramp; one who spends his life traveling from place to place, esp. by stealing rides on trains, and begging for a living. [U. S.] -- Ho"bo*ism (#), n. 
A hautboy or oboe. [Obs.] 
The crested curassow; -- called also royal pheasant. See Curassow. 
A Rhenish wine, of a light yellow color, either sparkling or still. The name is also given indiscriminately to all Rhenish wines. 
To disable by cutting the tendons of the hock; to hamstring; to hough. 
The mallow. 
To cheat. [Colloq.] L'Estrange. 
Applied to coarse cloth made of undyed wool, formerly worn by Scotch peasants. [Scot.] 
See Dun crow, under Dun, a. 
A man who carries a hod; a mason's tender. 
The horned or piked dogfish. See Dogfish. Dutch hoe, one having the blade set for use in the manner of a spade. -- Horse hoe, a kind of cultivator. 
To cut, dig, scrape, turn, arrange, or clean, with a hoe; as, to hoe the earth in a garden; also, to clear from weeds, or to loosen or arrange the earth about, with a hoe; as, to hoe corn. To hoe one's row, to do one's share of a job. [Colloq.] 
To use a hoe; to labor with a hoe. 
Careful; wary. [Obs.] Stapleton. 
A quadruped of the genus Sus, and allied genera of Suidæ; esp., the domesticated varieties of S. scrofa, kept for their fat and meat, called, respectively, lard and pork; swine; porker; specifically, a castrated boar; a barrow. 
To scrub with a hog, or scrubbing broom. 
To become bent upward in the middle, like a hog's back; -- said of a ship broken or strained so as to have this form. 
Broken or strained so as to have an upward curve between the ends. See Hog, v. i. 
A stocking without a foot, worn by coal miners at work. 
Drooping at the ends; arching;-in distinction from sagging. Hogging frame. See Hogframe. 
A hill; a cliff. [Obs.] Spenser. 
High flavor; strong scent. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
A pen or sty for hogs. 
A pen, house, or inclosure, for hogs. 
Rustic; rude; bold. Younq. 
To romp rudely or indecently. Swift. 
To hoist. [Obs.] They . . . hoised up the mainsail to the wind. Acts xxvii. 40. 
To raise; to lift; to elevate; esp., to raise or lift to a desired elevation, by means of tackle, as a sail, a flag, a heavy package or weight. They land my goods, and hoist my flying sails. Pope. Hoisting him into his father's throne. South. Hoisting engine, a steam engine for operating a hoist. 
Hoisted. [Obs.] 'Tis the sport to have the enginer Hoist with his own petar. Shak. 
To leap; to caper; to romp noisily. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
Scorn; derision; abusive talk. [Obs.] -- Ho"ker*ly, adv. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Whole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A large ship of burden, in ancient Greece. Mitford. 
The whole interior portion of a vessel below the lower deck, in which the cargo is stowed. 
In general, to keep one's self in a given position or condition; to remain fixed. Hence: 
A character [thus pause, and corona. 
One who is employed in the hold of a vessel. 
The payee of a bill of exchange or a promissory note, or the one who owns or holds it. 
Whole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To go or get into a hole. B. Jonson. 
Undercutting in a bed of coal, in order to bring down the upper mass. Raymond. 
Hollo. 
See Hollo, v. i. 
Ho there; stop; attend; hence, a loud cry or a call to attract attention; a halloo. And every day, for food or play, Came to the mariner's hollo. Coleridge. 
To call out or exclaim; to halloo. 
Same as Hollo. 
To make hollow, as by digging, cutting, or engraving; to excavate. "Trees rudely hollowed." Dryden. 
Wholly; completely; utterly; -- chiefly after the verb to beat, and often with all; as, this story beats the other all hollow. See All, adv. [Collog.] The more civilized so-called Caucasian races have beaten the Turks hollow in the struggle for existence. Darwin. 
Hollo. 
To shout; to hollo. Whisperings and hollowings are alike to a deaf ear. Fuller. 
To urge or call by shouting. He has hollowed the hounds. Sir W. Scott. 
Wholly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A tree or shrub of the genus Ilex. The European species (Ilex Aguifolium) is best known, having glossy green leaves, with a spiny, waved edge, and bearing berries that turn red or yellow about Michaelmas. 
A common evergreen oak, of Europe (Quercus Ilex); -- called also ilex, and holly. 
An oxide of holmium. 
A name given to a vase having a rounded body; esp.: (a) A closed vessel of nearly spherical form on a high stem or pedestal. Fairholt. (b) A drinking cup having a foot and stem. 
A whoremonger. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Wholesome. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contr. from holdeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Hollow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The cross as the symbol of Christ's crucifixion. Congregation of the Holy Cross (R. C. Ch.), a community of lay brothers and priests, in France and the United States, engaged chiefly in teaching and manual Labor. Originally called Brethren of St. Joseph. The Sisters of the Holy Cross engage in similar work. Addis & Arnold. -- Holy-cross day, the fourteenth of September, observed as a church festival, in memory of the exaltation of our Savior's cross. 
A symbolical acknowledgment made by a feudal tenant to, and in the presence of, his lord, on receiving investiture of fee, or coming to it by succession, that he was his man, or vassal; profession of fealty to a sovereign. 
Subject to homage. Howell. 
See Homelyn. 
The home base; he started for home. At home.(a) At one's own house, or lodgings. (b) In one's own town or country; as, peace abroad and at home. (c) Prepared to receive callers. -- Home department, the department of executive administration, by which the internal affairs of a country are managed. [Eng.] To be at home on any subject, to be conversant or familiar with it. -- To feel at home, to be at one's ease. -- To make one's self at home, to conduct one's self with as much freedom as if at home. 
Kept at home. 
Plainly; rudely; coarsely; as, homely dressed. [R.] Spenser. 
A carrier pigeon remarkable for its ability to return home from a distance. 
See Hoemother. 
A Hebrew measure containing, as a liquid measure, ten baths, equivalent to fifty-five gallons, two quarts, one pint; and, as a dry measure, ten ephahs, equivalent to six bushels, two pecks, four quarts. [Written also chomer, gomer.] 
Home-returning; -- used specifically of carrier pigeons. 
Maize hulled and broken, and prepared for food by being boiled in water. [U.S.] [Written also homony.] 
Like a home or a home circle. Quiet, cheerful, homish hospital life. E. E. Hale. 
Hand. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To pine; to lament; to long. Lamb. 
A kind of swelling in the cheek. 
A stone of a fine grit, or a slab, as of metal, covered with an abrading substance or powder, used for sharpening cutting instruments, and especially for setting razors; an oilstone. Tusser. Hone slateSee Polishing slate. -- Hone stone, one of several kinds of stone used for hones. See Novaculite. 
To sharpen on, or with, a hone; to rub on a hone in order to sharpen; as, to hone a razor. 
To adorn; to grace; to honor; to make becoming, appropriate, or honorable. [Obs.] Abp. Sandys. 
To be gentle, agreeable, or coaxing; to talk fondly; to use endearments; also, to be or become obsequiously courteous or complimentary; to fawn. "Honeying and making love." Shak. Rough to common men, But honey at the whisper of a lord. Tennyson. 
To make agreeable; to cover or sweeten with, or as with, honey. Canst thou not honey me with fluent speech Marston. 
A mercantile establishment or factory for foreign trade in China, as formerly at Canton; a succession of offices connected by a common passage and used for business or storage. Hong merchant, one of the few Chinese merchants who, previous to the treaty of 1842, formed a guild which had the exclusive privilege of trading with foreigners. 
To hang. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Honeyed. 
The cry of a wild goose. -- Honk"ing, n. 
A seigniory or lordship held of the king, on which other lordships and manors depended. Cowell. 
To accept and pay when due; as, to honora bill of exchange. 
See under Hunt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Army organization, above. 
A termination denoting state, condition, quality, character, totality, as in manhood, childhood, knighthood, brotherhood. Sometimes it is written, chiefly in obsolete words, in the form - head. 
The endmost plank of a strake which reaches the stem or stern. 
See Hooded seal, under Hooded. 
Having no hood. 
One who causes bad luck. [Colloq.] 
The hooded crow; also, in Scotland, the hooded gull. 
See Ungula. 
Having a dry and contracted hoof, which occasions pain and lameness. 
Furnished with hoofs. Grew. 
See Eccentric, and V-hook. 
To bend; to curve as a hook. 
A pipe with a long, flexible stem, so arranged that the smoke is cooled by being made to pass through water. 
The state of being bent like a hook; incurvation. 
Spur gearing having teeth slanting across the face of the wheel, sometimes slanting in opposite directions from the middle. 
See Hockey. 
Full of hooks; pertaining to hooks. 
Whole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Home. Chaucer. 
The hoopoe. See Hoopoe. 
One who hoops casks or tubs; a cooper. 
The European whistling, or wild, swan (Olor cygnus); -- called also hooper swan, whooping swan, and elk. 
To assail with contemptuous cries or shouts; to follow with derisive shouts. Partridge and his clan may hoot me for a cheat. Swift. 
A disease in cattle consisting in inflammation of the stomach by gas, ordinarily caused by eating too much green food; tympany; bloating. 
A climbing plant (Humulus Lupulus), having a long, twining, annual stalk. It is cultivated for its fruit (hops). 
To impregnate with hops. Mortimer. 
To gather hops. [Perhaps only in the form Hopping, vb. n.] 
A hydrous phosphate of zinc in transparent prismatic crystals. 
One who hopes. Swift. 
Impregnated with hops. 
See Grasshopper, 2. 
The act of one who, or that which, hops; a jumping, frisking, or dancing. Hopping Dick (Zoöl.), a thrush of Jamaica (Merula leucogenys), resembling the English blackbird in its familiar manners, agreeable song, and dark plumage. 
A fetter for horses, or cattle, when turned out to graze; -- chiefly used in the plural. 
A child's game, in which a player, hopping on one foot, drives a stone from one compartment to another of a figure traced or scotched on the ground; -- called also hoppers. 
Of or pertaining to an hour, or to hours. Prior. 
Hourly. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to Horace, the Latin poet, or resembling his style. 
A wandering troop or gang; especially, a clan or tribe of a nomadic people migrating from place to place for the sake of pasturage, plunder, etc.; a predatory multitude. Thomson. 
Hoar. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any natural projection or excrescence from an animal, resembling or thought to resemble a horn in substance or form; esp.: (a) A projection from the beak of a bird, as in the hornbill. (b) A tuft of feathers on the head of a bird, as in the horned owl. (c) A hornlike projection from the head or thorax of an insect, or the head of a reptile, or fish. (d) A sharp spine in front of the fins of a fish, as in the horned pout. 
A fish. See Hornfish. 
Furnished with a horn or horns; furnished with a hornlike process or appendage; as, horned cattle; having some part shaped like a horn. The horned moon with one bright star Within the nether tip. Coleridge. Horned bee (Zoöl.), a British wild bee (Osmia bicornis), having two little horns on the head. -- Horned dace (Zoöl.), an American cyprinoid fish (Semotilus corporialis) common in brooks and ponds; the common chub. See Illust. of Chub. -- Horned frog (Zoöl.), a very large Brazilian frog (Ceratophrys cornuta), having a pair of triangular horns arising from the eyelids. -- Horned grebe (Zoöl.), a species of grebe (Colymbus auritus), of Arctic Europe and America, having two dense tufts of feathers on the head. -- Horned horse (Zoöl.), the gnu. -- Horned lark (Zoöl.), the shore lark. -- Horned lizard (Zoöl.), the horned toad. -- Horned owl (Zoöl.), a large North American owl (Bubo Virginianus), having a pair of elongated tufts of feathers on the head. Several distinct varieties are known; as, the Arctic, Western, dusky, and striped horned owls, differing in color, and inhabiting different regions; -- called also great horned owl, horn owl, eagle owl, and cat owl. Sometimes also applied to the long-eared owl. See Eared owl, under Eared. -- Horned poppy. (Bot.) See Horn poppy, under Horn. -- Horned pout (Zoöl.), an American fresh-water siluroid fish; the bullpout. -- Horned rattler (Zoöl.), a species of rattlesnake (Crotalus cerastes), inhabiting the dry, sandy plains, from California to Mexico. It has a pair of triangular horns between the eyes; -- called also sidewinder. -- Horned ray (Zoöl.), the sea devil. -- Horned screamer (Zoöl.), the kamichi. -- Horned snake (Zoöl.), the cerastes. -- Horned toad (Zoöl.), any lizard of the genus Phrynosoma, of which nine or ten species are known. These lizards have several hornlike spines on the head, and a broad, flat body, covered with spiny scales. They inhabit the dry, sandy plains from California to Mexico and Texas. Called also horned lizard. -- Horned viper. (Zoöl.) See Cerastes. 
The European sand eel. [Scot.] 
The British sand lance or sand eel (Ammodytes lanceolatus). 
A large, strong wasp. The European species (Vespa crabro) is of a dark brown and yellow color. It is very pugnacious, and its sting is very severe. Its nest is constructed of a paperlike material, and the layers of comb are hung together by columns. The American white- faced hornet (V. maculata) is larger and has similar habits. Hornet fly (Zoöl.), any dipterous insect of the genus Asilus, and allied genera, of which there are numerous species. They are large and fierce flies which capture bees and other insects, often larger than themselves, and suck their blood. Called also hawk fly, robber fly. -- To stir up a hornet's nest, to provoke the attack of a swarm of spiteful enemies or spirited critics. [Colloq.] 
Having the hands horny and callous from labor. 
In a horrid manner. Shak. 
Struck with horror; horrified. Blank and horror-stricken faces. C. Kingsley. 
A hoofed quadruped of the genus Equus; especially, the domestic horse (E. caballus), which was domesticated in Egypt and Asia at a very early period. It has six broad molars, on each side of each jaw, with six incisors, and two canine teeth, both above and below. The mares usually have the canine teeth rudimentary or wanting. The horse differs from the true asses, in having a long, flowing mane, and the tail bushy to the base. Unlike the asses it has callosities, or chestnuts, on all its legs. The horse excels in strength, speed, docility, courage, and nobleness of character, and is used for drawing, carrying, bearing a rider, and like purposes. 
To get on horseback. [Obs.] Shelton. 
Horselike. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Pertaining to, or suggestive of, a horse, or of horse racing; as, horsy manners; garments of fantastically horsy fashions. [Colloq.] 
See Hose. [Archaic] 
One who deals in hose or stocking, or in goods knit or woven like hose. 
The consecrated wafer, believed to be the body of Christ, which in the Mass is offered as a sacrifice; also, the bread before consecration. 
One who receives or entertains another, whether gratuitosly or for compensation; one from whom another receives food, lodging, or entertainment; a landlord. Chaucer. "Fair host and Earl." Tennyson. Time is like a fashionable host, That slightly shakes his parting guest by the hand. Shak. 
To give entertainment to. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To lodge at an inn; to take up entertainment. [Obs.] "Where you shall host." Shak. 
An inn; a lodging house. [Archaic] Chaucer. "Homely brought up in a rude hostelry." B. Jonson. Come with me to the hostelry. Longfellow. 
The consecrated wafer; the host. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 
of Hote. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A bed of earth heated by fermenting manure or other substances, and covered with glass, intended for raising early plants, or for nourishing exotics. 
A city hall or townhouse. 
of Hote. 
Headstrong. That hot-mouthed beast that bears against the curb. Dryden. 
See Howdah. 
Same as Hock, a joint. 
Same as Hock, to hamstring. 
An adz; a hoe. [Obs.] Bp. Stillingfleet. 
To cut with a hoe. [Obs.] Johnson. 
An owl. See Howlet. 
A piece of woodland; a small wood. [Obs.] See Holt. 
A variety of the domestic dog, usually having large, drooping ears, esp. one which hunts game by scent, as the foxhound, bloodhound, deerhound, but also used for various breeds of fleet hunting dogs, as the greyhound, boarhound, etc. Hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs. Shak. 
Any small shark of the genus Galeus or Mustelus, of which there are several species, as the smooth houndfish (G. canis), of Europe and America; -- called also houndshark, and dogfish. 
See Hoopoe. [Obs.] 
Certain prayers to be repeated at stated times of the day, as matins and vespers. 
A nymph of paradise; -- so called by the Mohammedans. 
Happening or done every hour; occurring hour by hour; frequent; often repeated; renewed hour by hour; continual. In hourly expectation of a martyrdom. Sharp. 
Every hour; frequently; continually. Great was their strife, which hourly was renewed. Dryden. 
Goddess of the seasons, or of the hours of the day. Lo! where the rosy-blosomed Hours, Fair Venus' train, appear. Gray. 
A firm, or commercial establishment. 
To stow in a safe place; to take down and make safe; as, to house the upper spars. 
To have a position in one of the houses. See House, n., 
The eucharist. [Archaic] Rom. of R. Tennyson. 
To administer the eucharist to. [Archaic] Chaucer. 
A saddlecloth; a housing. [Obs.] Dryden. 
A beautiful South American motmot. Waterton. 
A head covering of various kinds; a hood; a coif; a cap. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
of Heave. Hove short, Hove to. See To heave a cable short, To heave a ship to, etc., under Heave. 
To rise; to swell; to heave; to cause to swell. [Obs. or Scot.] Holland. Burns. 
To hover around; to loiter; to lurk. [Obs.] Gower. 
A large conical brick structure around which the firing kilns are grouped. Knight. 
To put in a hovel; to shelter. To hovel thee with swine, and rogues forlon. Shak. The poor are hoveled and hustled together. Tennyson. 
p. p. of Heave. 
Affected with the disease called hoove; as, hoven cattle. 
A cover; a shelter; a protection. [Archaic] Carew. C. Kingsley. 
A device in an incubator for protecting the young chickens and keeping them warm. 
Be it as it may; nevertheless; notwithstanding; although; albeit; yet; but; however. The Moor -- howbeit that I endure him not -Is of a constant, loving, noble nature. Shak. 
A seat or pavilion, generally covered, fastened on the back of an elephant, for the rider or riders. [Written also houdah.] 
A midwife. [Prov. Eng.] 
A tool used by coopers for smoothing and chamfering rheir work, especially the inside of casks. 
To smooth; to plane; as, to howel a cask. 
The upper stage of a porcelian furnace. 
A howitzer. [Obs.] 
Same as Hooker. 
To utter with outcry. "Go . . . howl it out in deserts." Philips. 
Any South American monkey of the genus Mycetes. Many species are known. They are arboreal in their habits, and are noted for the loud, discordant howling in which they indulge at night. 
An owl; an owlet. [Written also houlet.] R. Browning. 
To cry out; to whoop. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Howsoever. [Obs.] 
A hood. See Houve. [Obs.] 
To hock; to hamstring. See Hock. [Obs.] Shak. 
A small coaster vessel, usually sloop-rigged, used in conveying passengers and goods from place to place, or as a tender to larger vessels in port. The hoy went to London every week. Cowper. 
Ho! Halloe! Stop! 
Same as Hoiden. 
One who navigates a hoy. A common hoyman to carry goods by water for hire. Hobart. 
An administrative subdivision of a fu, or department, or of an independent chow; also, the seat of government of such a district. 
A hardened, engraved steel punch for impressing a device upon a die, used in coining, etc. 
A loud noise of many confused voices; a tumult; uproar. Milton. This hubbub of unmeaning words. Macaulay. 
Full of hubs or protuberances; as, a road that has been frozen while muddy is hubby. [U.S.] 
To higgle in trading. [Obs.] Holland. 
Round-shoulded. 
A huck or hull, as of a nut. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
To press together promiscuously, from confusion, apprehension, or the like; to crowd together confusedly; to press or hurry in disorder; to crowd. The cattle huddled on the lea. Tennyson. Huddling together on the public square . . . like a herd of panic- struck deer. Prescott. 
A crowd; a number of persons or things crowded together in a confused manner; tumult; confusion. "A huddle of ideas." Addison. 
An iron bucket for hoisting coal or ore. Raymond. 
A predominant shade in a composition of primary colors; a primary color modified by combination with others. 
A shouting or vociferation. Hue and cry (Law), a loud outcry with which felons were anciently pursued, and which all who heard it were obliged to take up, joining in the pursuit till the malefactor was taken; in later usage, a written proclamation issued on the escape of a felon from prison, requiring all persons to aid in retaking him. Burrill. 
Having color; -- usually in composition; as, bright-hued; many- hued. Chaucer. 
One who cries out or gives an alarm; specifically, a balker; a conder. See Balker. 
To remove from the board (the piece which could have captured an opposing piece). See Huff, v. i., 3. 
To remove from the board a man which could have captured a piece but has not done so; -- so called because it was the habit to blow upon the piece. 
A blusterer; a bully. [Obs.] -- a. 
A bully; a blusterer. Hudibras. 
To keep close to; as, to hug the land; to hug the wind. To hug one's self, to congratulate one's self; to chuckle. 
A close embrace or clasping with the arms, as in affection or in wrestling. Fuller. 
Very large; enormous; immense; excessive; -- used esp. of material bulk, but often of qualities, extent, etc.; as, a huge ox; a huge space; a huge difference. "The huge confusion." Chapman. "A huge filly." Jer. Taylor. -- Huge"ly, adv. -- Huge"ness, n. Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea. Shak. 
One who hugs or embraces. 
To conceal; to lurk ambush. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
To hug. [Obs.] 
Vast. [Obs.] Dryden. 
An outer garment worn in Europe in the Middle Ages. [Written also heuk and hyke.] [Obs.] Bacon. 
See Uhlan. 
A hunch. [Obs.] 
Swollen; gibbous. [Obs.] 
To take out the entrails of; to disembowel; as, to hulk a hare. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 
The frame or body of a vessel, exclusive of her masts, yards, sails, and rigging. Deep in their hulls our deadly bullets light. Dryden. Hull down, said of a ship so distant that her hull is concealed by the convexity of the sea. 
To toss or drive on the water, like the hull of a ship without sails. [Obs.] Shak. Milton. 
Deprived of the hulls. Hulled corn, kernels of maize prepared for food by removing the hulls. 
One who, or that which, hulls; especially, an agricultural machine for removing the hulls from grain; a hulling machine. 
See Hollo. 
Having or containing hulls. 
Holly, an evergreen shrub or tree. 
To make an inarticulate sound, like h'm, through the nose in the process of speaking, from embarrassment or a affectation; to hem. 
An inarticulate nasal sound or murmur, like h'm, uttered by a speaker in pause from embarrassment, affectation, etc. THese shrugs, these hums and ha's. Shak. 
Ahem; hem; an inarticulate sound uttered in a pause of speech implying doubt and deliberation. Pope. 
Belonging to man or mankind; having the qualities or attributes of a man; of or pertaining to man or to the race of man; as, a human voice; human shape; human nature; human sacrifices. To err is human; to forgive, divine. Pope. 
A human being. [Colloq.] Sprung of humans that inhabit earth. Chapman. We humans often find ourselves in strange position. Prof. Wilson. 
The study of human nature. [R.] T. W. Collins. 
A salt of humic acid. 
Hornless. See Hummel. [Scot.] 
The bumblebee. Shak. 
With humility; lowly. Pope. 
To deceive; to impose; to cajole; to hoax. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, vegetable mold; as, humic acid. See Humin. 
Containing sensible moisture; damp; moist; as, a humidair or atmosphere; somewhat wet or watery; as, humid earth; consisting of water or vapor. Evening cloud, or humid bow. Milton. 
A bitter, brownish yellow, amorphous substance, extracted from vegetable mold, and also produced by the action of acids on certain sugars and carbohydrates; -- called also humic acid, ulmin, gein, ulmic or geic acid, etc. 
A fragrant balsam obtained from Brazilian trees of the genus Humirium. 
A mineral of a transparent vitreous brown color, found in the ejected masses of Vesuvius. It is a silicate of iron and magnesia, containing fluorine. 
To separate from the awns; -- said of barley. [Scot.] 
Having no awns or no horns; as, hummelcorn; a hummel cow. [Scot.] 
A humming bird. 
A sweating bath or place for sweating. Sir T. Herbert. 
A vitiated or morbid animal fluid, such as often causes an eruption on the skin. "A body full of humors." Sir W. Temple. 
Pertaining to, or proceeding from, the humors; as, a humoral fever. Humoral pathology (Med.), the pathology, or doctrine of the nature of diseases, which attributes all morbid phenomena to the disordered condition of the fluids or humors of the body. 
A fleshy protuberance on the back of an animal, as a camel or whale. 
Having a hump, as the back. 
An exclamation denoting surprise, or contempt, doubt, etc. 
Full of humps or bunches; covered with protuberances; humped. 
That portion of the soil formed by the decomposition of animal or vegetable matter. It is a valuable constituent of soils. Graham. 
One of a warlike nomadic people of Northern Asia who, in the 5th century, under Atilla, invaded and conquered a great part of Europe. 
A back with a hunch or hump; also, a hunchbacked person. 
of Hang. Hung beef, the fleshy part of beef slightly salted and hung up to dry; dried beef. 
To make hungry; to famish. 
A large lump or piece; a hunch; as, a hunk of bread. [Colloq.] 
Originally, a nickname for a member of the conservative section of the Democratic party in New York; hence, one opposed to progress in general; a fogy. [Political Cant, U.S.] 
A covetous, sordid man; a miser; a niggard. Pray make your bargain with all the prudence and selfishness of an old hunks. Gray. 
All right; in a good condition; also, even; square. [Slang, U. S.] 
A worthless dog that runs back on the scent; a blunderer. [Obs.] Shak. 
A hunter. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A kind of spider. See Hunting spider, under Hunting. 
A coarse kind of linen; -- called also harden. [Prov. Eng.] 
To hedge, cover, make, or inclose with hurdles. Milton. 
The coarse part of flax or hemp; hards. 
To twist or turn. "Hurled or crooked feet." [Obs.] Fuller. 
A table on which fiber is stirred and mixed by beating with a bowspring. 
One who hurls, or plays at hurling. 
Noise; confusion; uproar. That, with the hurly, death itself awakes. Shak. 
; sing. Huron. (Ethnol.) A powerful and warlike tribe of North American Indians of the Algonquin stock. They formerly occupied the country between Lakes Huron, Erie, and Ontario, but were nearly exterminated by the Five Nations about 1650. 
To make a rolling or burring sound. [Obs.] R is the dog's letter, and hurreth in the sound. B. Jonson. 
A cheer; a shout of joy, etc. Hurrah's nest, state of utmost confusion. [Colloq. U.S.] A perfect hurrah's nest in our kitchen. Mrs. Stowe. 
To utter hurrahs; to huzza. 
To salute, or applaud, with hurrahs. 
To move or act with haste; to proceed with celerity or precipitation; as, let us hurry. To hurry up, to make haste. [Colloq.] 
The act of hurrying in motion or business; pressure; urgency; bustle; confusion. Ambition raises a tumult in the soul, it inflames the mind, and puts into a violent hurry of thought. Addison. 
A wood or grove; -- a word used in the composition of many names, as in Hazlehurst. 
One who hurts or does harm. I shall not be a hurter, if no helper. Beau. & Fl. 
A butting piece; a strengthening piece, esp.: (Mil.) A piece of wood at the lower end of a platform, designed to prevent the wheels of gun carriages from injuring the parapet. 
See Whortleberry. 
To become or to keep still or quiet; to become silent; -- esp. used in the imperative, as an exclamation; be still; be silent or quiet; make no noise. Hush, idle words, and thoughts of ill. Keble. But all these strangers' presence every one did hush. Spenser. 
Stillness; silence; quiet. [R.] "It is the hush of night." Byron. Hush money, money paid to secure silence, or to prevent the disclosure of facts. Swift. 
Silent; quiet. "Hush as death." Shak. 
An usher. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To strip off the external covering or envelope of; as, to husk Indian corn. 
In a husky manner; dryly. 
Abounding with husks; consisting of husks. Dryden. 
Rough in tone; harsh; hoarse; raucous; as, a husky voice. 
Originally, one of the national cavalry of Hungary and Croatia; now, one of the light cavalry of European armies. 
A case or bag. See Housewife, 2. 
To shake together in confusion; to push, jostle, or crowd rudely; to handle roughly; as, to hustle a person out of a room. Macaulay. 
To push or crows; to force one's way; to move hustily and with confusion; a hurry. Leaving the king, who had hustled along the floor with his dress worfully arrayed. Sir W. Scott. 
A small house, hivel, or cabin; a mean lodge or dwelling; a slightly built or temporary structure. Death comes on with equal footsteps To the hall and hut. Bp. Coxe. 
To place in huts; to live in huts; as, to hut troops in winter quarters. The troops hutted among the heights of Morristown. W. Irving. 
The case of a flour bolt. 
To wash (ore) in a box or jig. 
See Huckster. 
To buzz; to murmur. [Obs.] Huzzing and burring in the preacher's ear. Latimer. 
A word used as a shout of joy, exultation, approbation, or encouragement. 
A shout of huzza; a cheer; a hurrah. They made a great huzza or shout. Evelyn. 
To shout huzza; to cheer. 
To receive or attend with huzzas. He was huzzaed into the court. Addison. 
Same as Hyena. 
A pteroid of the genus Cavolina. See Pteropoda, and Illustration in Appendix. 
The offspring of the union of two distinct species; an animal or plant produced from the mixture of two species. See Mongrel. 
Produced from the mixture of two species; as, plants of hybrid nature. 
A land tax. See Hidage. 
A serpent or monster in the lake or marsh of Lerna, in the Peloponnesus, represented as having many heads, one of which, when cut off, was immediately succeeded by two others, unless the wound was cauterized. It was slain by Hercules. Hence, a terrible monster. Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras dire. Milton. 
A water jar; esp., one with a large rounded body, a small neck, and three handles. Some of the most beautiful Greek vases are of this form. 
Pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen; as, hydric oxide. Hydric dioxide. (Chem.) See Hydrogen dioxide, under Hydrogen. -- Hydric oxide (Chem.), water. -- Hydric sulphate (Chem.), hydrogen sulphate or sulphuric acid. 
A constellation of the southern hemisphere, near the south pole. 
See Hie. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Belonging to winter; done in winter. Sir T. Browne. 
A hyena. [Obs.] Shak. 
Any carnivorous mammal of the family Hyænidæ, of which three living species are known. They are large and strong, but cowardly. They feed chiefly on carrion, and are nocturnal in their habits. [Written also hyæna.] 
Of or pertaining to rain; descriptive of the distribution of rain, or of rainy regions. 
The goddess of health, daughter of Esculapius. 
See Haik, and Huke. 
A dynasty of Egyptian kings, often called the Shepherd kings, of foreign origin, who, according to the narrative of Manetho, ruled for about 500 years, forming the XVth and XVIth dynasties. It is now considered that the XVIth is merely a double of the XVth dynasty, and that the total period of the six Hyksos kings was little more than 100 years. It is supposed that they were Asiatic Semites. 
Of or pertaining to matter; material; corporeal; as, hylic influences. 
A theory which regards matter as the original principle of evil. 
The wild ass of Persia. 
A fold of muscous membrane often found at the orifice of the vagina; the vaginal membrane. 
A fabulous deity; according to some, the son of Apollo and Urania, according to others, of Bacchus and Venus. He was the god of marriage, and presided over nuptial solemnities. Till Hymen brought his love-delighted hour, There dwelt no joy in Eden's rosy bower. Campbell. 
An ode or song of praise or adoration; especially, a religious ode, a sacred lyric; a song of praise or thankgiving intended to be used in religious service; as, the Homeric hymns; Watts' hymns. Admonishing one another in psalms and hymns. Col. iii. 16. Where angels first should practice hymns, and string Their tuneful harps. Dryden. Hymn book, a book containing a collection of hymns, as for use in churches; a hymnal. 
To praise in song; to worship or extol by singing hymns; to sing. To hymn the bright of the Lord. Keble. Their praise is hymned by loftier harps than mine. Byron. 
To sing in praise or adoration. Milton. 
A collection of hymns; a hymn book. 
Relating to hymns, or sacred lyrics. Donne. 
A hymn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A servant. See Hine. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to the bony or cartilaginous arch which supports the tongue. Sometimes applied to the tongue itself. Hyoid arch (Anat.), the arch of cartilaginous or bony segments, which connects the base of the tongue with either side of the skull. -- Hyoid bone (Anat.), the bone in the base of the tongue, the middle part of the hyoid arch. 
The hyoid bone. 
An abbreviation of hypochonaria; -- usually in plural. [Colloq.] Heaven send thou hast not got the hyps. Swift. 
To make melancholy. [Colloq.] W. Irving. 
Intense publicity for a future event, performed in a showy or excessively dramatic manner suggesting an importance not justified by the event; as, the hype surrounding the superbowl is usually ludicrous. [PJC] 
A prefix equivalent to super- or per-; as hyperoxide, or peroxide. [Obs.] See Per-. 
The long, branching filaments of which the mycelium (and the greater part of the plant) of a fungus is formed. They are also found enveloping the gonidia of lichens, making up a large part of their structure. 
A mark or short dash, thus [-], placed at the end of a line which terminates with a syllable of a word, the remainder of which is carried to the next line; or between the parts of many a compound word; as in fine-leaved, clear-headed. It is also sometimes used to separate the syllables of words. 
To connect with, or separate by, a hyphen, as two words or the parts of a word. 
The largest genus of true mosses; feather moss. 
Hypochondria. [Colloq.] 
Sodium hyposulphite, or thiosulphate, a solution of which is used as a bath to wash out the unchanged silver salts in a picture. [Colloq.] 
Any animal of the genus Hyrax, of which about four species are known. They constitute the order Hyracoidea. The best known species are the daman (H. Syriacus) of Palestine, and the klipdas (H. capensis) of South Africa. Other species are H. arboreus and H. Sylvestris, the former from Southern, and the latter from Western, Africa. See Daman. 
Millet. 
A wood. See Hurst. 
A fragrant kind of green tea. Hyson skin, the light and inferior leaves separated from the hyson by a winnowing machine. M'Culloch. 
A plant (Hyssopus officinalis). The leaves have an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste. 
A small haven. See Hithe. [Obs.] 
An iambus or iambic. [R.] 
Consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented; as, an iambic foot. 
Iambic. [Obs. or R.] 
A foot consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, as in âmans, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented one, as invent; an iambic. See the Couplet under Iambic, n. 
One of several species of wild goats having very large, recurved horns, transversely ridged in front; -- called also steinbok. 
In the same place; -- abbreviated ibid. or ib. 
Any bird of the genus Ibis and several allied genera, of the family Ibidæ, inhabiting both the Old World and the New. Numerous species are known. They are large, wading birds, having a long, curved beak, and feed largely on reptiles. 
A large mass of ice, generally floating in the ocean. 
A frozen waterfall, or mass of ice resembling a frozen waterfall. Coleridge. 
A plant (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum), sprinkled with pellucid, watery vesicles, which glisten like ice. It is native along the Mediterranean, in the Canaries, and in South Africa. Its juice is said to be demulcent and diuretic; its ashes are used in Spain in making glass. Ice-skater = one who skates on ice wearing an ice skate; esp. an athlete who performs athletic or artistic movements on a sheet of ice, wearing ice skates; including speed skater and figure skater 
I. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An ethereal fluid that supplied the place of blood in the veins of the gods. 
A pendent, and usually conical, mass of ice, formed by freezing of dripping water; as, the icicles on the eaves of a house. 
In an icy manner; coldly. Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, Dead perfection, no more. Tennyson. 
A coating or covering resembling ice, as of sugar and milk or white of egg; frosting. 
An icicle. [Prov. Eng.] 
An image or representation; a portrait or pretended portrait. Netherlands whose names and icons are published. Hakewill. 
Pertaining to, or caused by, a blow; sudden; abrupt. [R.] H. Bushnell. 
The stress of voice laid upon accented syllable of a word. Cf. Arsis. 
Spangled with ice. Mounting up in icy-pearled car. Milton. 
Same as Id. 
Imaginary. 
A mental conception regarded as a standard of perfection; a model of excellence, beauty, etc. The ideal is to be attained by selecting and assembling in one whole the beauties and perfections which are usually seen in different individuals, excluding everything defective or unseemly, so as to form a type or model of the species. Thus, the Apollo Belvedere is the ideal of the beauty and proportion of the human frame. Fleming. Beau ideal. See Beau ideal. 
The faculty or capacity of the mind for forming ideas; the exercise of this capacity; the act of the mind by which objects of sense are apprehended and retained as objects of thought. The whole mass of residua which have been accumulated . . . all enter now into the process of ideation. J. D. Morell. 
The same; the same as above; -- often abbreviated id. 
The fifteenth day of March, May, July, and October, and the thirteenth day of the other months. The ides of March remember. Shak. 
The condition or quality of being an idiot; absence, or marked deficiency, of sense and intelligence. I will undertake to convict a man of idiocy, if he can not see the proof that three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles. F. W. Robertson. 
Of or pertaining to, or conforming to, the mode of expression peculiar to a language; as, an idiomatic meaning; an idiomatic phrase. -- Id`i*o*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. 
Idiocy. [R.] 
To lose or spend time in inaction, or without being employed in business. Shak. 
To spend in idleness; to waste; to consume; -- often followed by away; as, to idle away an hour a day. 
One who has constant day duties on board ship, and keeps no regular watch. Totten. 
In a idle manner; ineffectually; vainly; lazily; carelessly; (Obs.) foolishly. 
An artificial international language, selected by the "Delegation for the Adoption of an Auxillary International Language" (founded at Paris in 1901), made public in 1907, and subsequently greatly revised and extended by a permanent committee or "Academy." It combines systematically the advantages of previous schemes with a thoroughly logical word formation, and has neither accented constants nor arbitrarily coined pronominal words. For each idea that root is selected which is already most international, on the principle of the "greatest facility for the greatest number of people." The word "Ido" means in the language itself "offspring." The official name is: "Linguo Internaciona di la Delegitaro (Sistema Ido)." --I"dism (#), n. -- I"dist (#), n. 
An idolater. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A short poem; properly, a short pastoral poem; as, the idyls of Theocritus; also, any poem, especially a narrative or descriptive poem, written in an eleveted and highly finished style; also, by extension, any artless and easily flowing description, either in poetry or prose, of simple, rustic life, of pastoral scenes, and the like. [Written also idyll.] Wordsworth's solemn-thoughted idyl. Mrs. Browning. His [Goldsmith's] lovely idyl of the Vicar's home. F. Harrison. 
Together. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A cavity, or excavation, made in the snow by a seal, over its breathing hole in the ice. 
To form into fire. [R.] Stukeley. 
To subject to the action of intense heat; to heat strongly; -- often said of incombustible or infusible substances; as, to ignite iron or platinum. 
To take fire; to begin to burn. 
Ignominy. [R. & Obs.] I blush to think upon this ignomy. Shak. 
To throw out or reject as false or ungrounded; -- said of a bill rejected by a grand jury for want of evidence. See Ignoramus. 
Unknown. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. -- n. 
Any species of the genus Iguana, a genus of large American lizards of the family Iguanidæ. They are arboreal in their habits, usually green in color, and feed chiefly upon fruits. 
The peculiar dress worn by pilgrims to Mecca. 
A transliteration of the four constants forming the Hebrew tetragrammaton or "incommunicable name" of the Supreme Being, which in latter Jewish tradition is not pronounced save with the vowels of adonai or elohim, so that the true pronunciation is lost. 
Ear of corn. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
An aisle. [Obs.] H. Swinburne. 
An isle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Pertaining to the ileum. [Written also iliac.] 
The last, and usually the longest, division of the small intestine; the part between the jejunum and large intestine. [Written also ileon, and ilium.] 
A morbid condition due to intestinal obstruction. It is characterized by complete constipation, with griping pains in the abdomen, which is greatly distended, and in the later stages by vomiting of fecal matter. Called also ileac, or iliac, passion. 
Pertaining to ancient Ilium, or Troy. Gladstone. 
Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ilium, or dorsal bone of the pelvis; as, the iliac artery. [Written also ileac.] 
A celebrated Greek epic poem, in twenty-four books, on the destruction of Ilium, the ancient Troy. The Iliad is ascribed to Homer. 
Pertaining to the ilium; iliac. 
Alike. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, the holly (Ilex), and allied plants; as, ilicic acid. 
The bitter principle of the holly. 
The dorsal one of the three principal bones comprising either lateral half of the pelvis; the dorsal or upper part of the hip bone. See Innominate bone, under Innominate. [Written also ilion, and ileum.] 
Same; each; every. [Archaic] Spenser. Of that ilk, denoting that a person's surname and the title of his estate are the same; as, Grant of that ilk, i.e., Grant of Grant. Jamieson. 
Same. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In a ill manner; badly; weakly. How ill this taper burns! Shak. Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth accumulates and men decay. Goldsmith. 
Somewhat ill. [Obs.] Howell. 
To play upon by artifice; to deceive; to mock; to excite and disappoint the hopes of. 
To throw or spread light upon; to make light or bright; to illuminate; to illumine. Shak. The mountain's brow, Illumed with fluid gold. Thomson. 
To deceive; to entice; to lure. [Obs.] The devil insnareth the souls of many men, by illuring them with the muck and dung of this world. Fuller. 
Etym: [A word not fully approved, but sometimes used for the adverb ill.] 
A picture, example, or illustration, often taken from sensible objects, and used to illustrate a subject; usually, an extended metaphor. Brande & C. 
That may be imaged. [R.] 
One who images or forms likenesses; a sculptor. [Obs.] Praxiteles was ennobled for a rare imager. Holland. 
The final adult, and usually winged, state of an insect. See Illust. of Ant-lion, and Army worm. 
A lodging house for Mohammedan pilgrims. Moore. 
See Embalm. 
To put under a ban. [R.] Barlow. 
To form into a band or bands. "Imbanded nations." J. Barlow. 
To inclose or defend with a bank or banks. See Embank. 
To bar in; to secure. [Obs.] To imbar their crooked titles. Shak. 
See Embark. 
To store in a barn. [Obs.] 
See Embase. 
To diminish in value. [Obs.] Hales. 
See Embay. 
To sink or lay, as in a bed; to deposit in a partly inclosing mass, as of clay or mortar; to cover, as with earth, sand, etc. 
One who, or that which, imbibes. 
To become corporeal; to assume the qualities of a material body. See Embody. The soul grows clotted by contagion, Imbodies, and imbrutes. Milton. 
See Emboil. 
To conceal, as in bushes; to hide. [Obs.] Shelton. 
To be concealed. [R.] Milton. 
See Emboss. 
To make like a bow; to curve; to arch; to vault; to embow. "Imbowed windows." Bacon. 
To inclose in a box. 
To wet or moisten; to soak; to drench, especially in blood. While Darwen stream, will blood of Scots imbrued. Milton. 
The act of imbuing; the state of being imbued; hence, a deep tincture. 
A compound with, or derivative of, the imido group; specif., a compound of one or more acid radicals with the imido group, or with a monamine; hence, also, a derivative of ammonia, in which two atoms of hydrogen have been replaced by divalent basic or acid radicals; -- frequently used as a combining form; as, succinimide. 
Pertaining to, containing, or combined with, the radical NH, which is called the imido group. Imido acid, an organic acid, consisting of one or more acid radicals so united with the imido group that it contains replaceable acid hydrogen, and plays the part of an acid; as, uric acid, succinimide, etc., are imido acids. 
Very great; huge; vast; also, monstrous in character; inhuman; atrocious; fierce. [Obs.] "So immane a man." Chapman. -- Im*mane"ly, adv. [Obs.] 
To cover, as with a mask; to disguise or conceal. [R.] Shak. 
To catch or entangle in, or as in, the meshes of a net. or in a web; to insnare. 
See Emmew. 
To send in; to inject; to infuse; -- the correlative of emit. [R.] Boyle. 
To mix; to mingle. [R.] Amongst her tears immixing prayers meek. Spenser. 
Unclean. [R.] Burton. 
Exempt; protected by inoculation. -- Im*mu"nize, v. t. 
A wall; an inclosure. [Obs.] Shak. 
To change or alter. [Obs.] J. Salkeld. 
To graft with new feathers, as a wing; to splice a broken feather. Hence, Fig.: To repair; to extend; to increase; to strengthen to equip. [Archaic] Imp out our drooping country's broken wing. Shak. Who lazily imp their wings with other men's plumes. Fuller. Here no frail Muse shall imp her crippled wing. Holmes. Help, ye tart satirists, to imp my rage With all the scorpions that should whip this age. Cleveland. 
To drive close; to press firmly together: to wedge into a place. Woodward. 
The single instantaneous stroke of a body in motion against another either in motion or at rest. 
To make worse; to diminish in quantity, value, excellence, or strength; to deteriorate; as, to impair health, character, the mind, value. Time sensibly all things impairs. Roscommon. In years he seemed, but not impaired by years. Pope. 
To grow worse; to deteriorate. Milton. 
Not fit or appropriate. [Obs.] 
Diminution; injury. [Obs.] 
To join, as two coats of arms on one shield, palewise; hence, to join in honorable mention. Ordered the admission of St. Patrick to the same to be matched and impaled with the blessed Virgin in the honor thereof. Fuller. 
To grasp with or hold in the hand. [R.] J. Barlow. 
To inclose for a park; to sever from a common; hence, to inclose or shut up. They . . . impark them [the sheep] within hurdles. Holland. 
To have time before pleading; to have delay for mutual adjustment. Blackstone. 
Impartation. 
To pave. [Poetic] Impaved with rude fidelity Of art mosaic. Wordsworth. 
To put in pawn; to pledge. Shak. 
To hinder; to stop in progress; to obstruct; as, to impede the advance of troops. Whatever hinders or impedes The action of the nobler will. Logfellow. 
To drive or urge forward or on; to press on; to incite to action or motion in any way. The surge impelled me on a craggy coast. Pope. 
To shut up or inclose, as in a pen. Feltham. 
To pay. [Obs.] Fabyan. 
To hang over; to be suspended above; to threaten frome near at hand; to menace; to be imminent. See Imminent. Destruction sure o'er all your heads impends. Pope. 
Empery. [Archaic] Joye. 
To affict with pestilence; to infect, as with plague. [Obs.] 
The African sugar cane (Holcus saccharatus), -- resembling the sorghum, or Chinese sugar cane. 
A body of Kaffir warriors; a body of native armed men. [South Africa] 
The process of repairing broken feathers or a deficient wing. 
See Umpire. [Obs.] Huloet. 
Having the qualities, or showing the characteristics, of an imp. 
Intricate; entangled; complicated; complex. The fable of every poem is . . . simple or implex. it is called simple when there is no change of fortune in it; implex, when the fortune of the chief actor changes from bad to good, or from good to bad. Addison. 
To poison; to imbitter; to impair. 
To stake; to wager; to pledge. [Obs.] Against the which he has imponed, as I take it, six French rapiers and poniards. Shak. 
The duykerbok. 
To impoverish. [Obs.] 
To signify; to purport; to be of moment. "For that . . . importeth to the work." Bacon. 
Capable of being imported. 
To lay on, as the hands, in the religious rites of confirmation and ordination. 
To practice trick or deception. To impose on or upon, to pass or put a trick on; to delude. "He imposes on himself, and mistakes words for things." Locke. 
A command; injunction. [Obs.] Shak. 
The top member of a pillar, pier, wall, etc., upon which the weight of an arch rests. 
To attack by words or arguments; to contradict; to assail; to call in question; to make insinuations against; to gainsay; to oppose. The truth hereof I will net rashly pugn, or overboldly affirm. Peacham. 
Unpunished. [R.] 
Not purified according to the ceremonial law of Moses; unclean. 
To defile; to pollute. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
To adjudge as one's own (the sin or righteousness) of another; as, the righteousness of Christ is imputed to us. It was imputed to him for righteousness. Rom. iv. 22. They merit Imputed shall absolve them who renounce Their own, both righteous and unrighteous deeds. Milton. 
A peculiar strong soup or broth, made in Scotland. [Written also imrich.] 
See Enable. 
Without contents; empty; void of sense or intelligence; purposeless; pointless; characterless; useless. "Vague and inane instincts." I. Taylor. -- In*ane"ly, adv. 
That which is void or empty. [R.] The undistinguishable inane of infinite space. Locke. 
Unapt; not apt; unsuitable; inept. -- In*apt"ly, adv. -- In*apt"ness, n. 
To graft by uniting, as a scion, to a stock, without separating either from its root before the union is complete; -- also called to graft by approach. P. Miler. 
To inclose. [Obs.] Fairfax. 
Born in or with; implanted by nature; innate; as, inborn passions. Cowper. 
Bred within; innate; as, inbred worth. "Inbred sentiments." Burke. 
A Japanese measure of length equal to about two and one twelfth yards. [Written also ink.] 
The people governed by the Incas, now represented by the Quichua tribe. Inca dove (Zoöl.), a small dove (Scardafella inca), native of Arizona, Lower California, and Mexico. 
To confine in, or as in, a cage; to coop up. [Written also encage.] "Incaged birds." Shak. 
Of or pertaining to the Incas. 
To cover or invest with flesh. [R.] Wiseman. 
To develop flesh. [R.] Wiseman. 
To inclose in a case; to inclose; to cover or surround with something solid. Rich plates of gold the folding doors incase. Pope. 
To cover with a casque or as with a casque. Sherwood. 
To inflame; to excite. [Obs.] Marston. 
The crime of cohabitation or sexual commerce between persons related within the degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law. Shak. Spiritual incest. (Eccl. Law) (a) The crime of cohabitation committed between persons who have a spiritual alliance by means of baptism or confirmation. (b) The act of a vicar, or other beneficiary, who holds two benefices, the one depending on the collation of the other. 
An island; -- often used in the names of small islands off the coast of Scotland, as in Inchcolm, Inchkeith, etc. [Scot.] 
To advance or retire by inches or small degrees; to move slowly. With slow paces measures back the field, And inches to the walls. Dryden. 
Measurement an inch in any dimension, whether length, breadth, or thickness; -- used in composition; as, a two-inch cable; a four- inch plank. Inch stuff, boards, etc., sawed one inch thick. 
Having or measuring (so many) inches; as, a four-inched bridge. Shak. 
To cut; to separate and remove; to resolve or break up, as by medicines. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. 
Having deep and sharp notches, as a leaf or a petal. 
To move to action; to stir up; to rouse; to spur or urge on. Anthiochus, when he incited Prusias to join in war, set before him the greatness of the Romans. Bacon. No blown ambition doth our arms incite. Shak. 
Same as Inkle. 
To clasp; to inclose. Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips. Shak. 
Incognito. [Colloq.] Depend upon it -- he'll remain incog. Addison. 
That which is taken into the body as food; the ingesta; -- sometimes restricted to the nutritive, or digestible, portion of the food. See Food. Opposed to output. Income bond, a bond issued on the income of the corporation or company issuing it, and the interest of which is to be paid from the earnings of the company before any dividends are made to stockholders; -- issued chiefly or exclusively by railroad companies. -- Income tax, a tax upon a person's incomes, emoluments, profits, etc., or upon the excess beyond a certain amount. 
Unlearned; artless; pretty; delicate. [Obs.] Most sweet jests! most incony vulgar wit! Shak. 
To fix firmly, as in cube; to secure or place firmly. [Obs.] Milton. 
To inculcate. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 
To inculpate. [Obs.] Shelton. 
Untilled; uncultivated; crude; rude; uncivilized. Germany then, says Tacitus, was incult and horrid, now full of magnificent cities. Burton. His style is diffuse and incult. M. W. Shelley. 
To pass; to enter. [Obs.] Light is discerned by itself because by itself it incurs into the eye. South. 
One of the small bones in the tympanum of the ear; the anvil bone. See Ear. 
Cut or stamped in, or hollowed out by engraving. "Irregular incuse square." Dr. W. Smith. 
To strike or stamp in. [Obs.] Becon. 
See Encyst. 
India. [Poetical] Shak. Milton. 
To pierce, as with a dart. 
Azure-colored; of a bright blue color. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
See Endear. 
To bring into debt; to place under obligation; -- chiefly used in the participle indebted. Thy fortune hath indebted thee to none. Daniel. 
In reality; in truth; in fact; verily; truly; -- used in a variety of sense. Esp.: (a) Denoting emphasis; as, indeed it is so. (b) Denoting concession or admission; as, indeed, you are right. (c) Denoting surprise; as, indeed, is it you Its meaning is not intrinsic or fixed, but depends largely on the form of expression which it accompanies. 
To bind out by indenture or contract; to indenture; to apprentice; as, to indent a young man to a shoemaker; to indent a servant. 
A requisition or order for supplies, sent to the commissariat of an army. [India] Wilhelm. 
To indue. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The second digit, that next pollex, in the manus, or hand; the forefinger; index finger. 
To provide with an index or table of references; to put into an index; as, to index a book, or its contents. 
A country in Southern Asia; the two peninsulas of Hither and Farther India; in a restricted sense, Hither India, or Hindostan. India ink, a nearly black pigment brought chiefly from China, used for water colors. It is in rolls, or in square, and consists of lampblack or ivory black and animal glue. Called also China ink. The true India ink is sepia. See Sepia. -- India matting, floor matting made in China, India, etc., from grass and reeds; -- also called Canton, or China, matting. -- India paper, a variety of Chinese paper, of smooth but not glossy surface, used for printing from engravings, woodcuts, etc. -- India proof (Engraving), a proof impression from an engraved plate, taken on India paper. -- India rubber. See Caoutchouc. -- India-rubber tree (Bot.), any tree yielding caoutchouc, but especially the East Indian Ficus elastica, often cultivated for its large, shining, elliptical leaves. 
An Indiaman. 
Index; indication. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To charge with a crime, in due form of law, by the finding or presentment of a grand jury; to find an indictment against; as, to indict a man for arson. It is the peculiar province of a grand jury to indict, as it is of a house of representatives to impeach. 
A name designating the East Indies, also the West Indies. Our king has all the Indies in his arms. Shak. 
Unworthy; undeserving; disgraceful; degrading. Chaucer. Counts it scorn to draw Comfort indign from any meaner thing. Trench. 
A blue dyestuff obtained from several plants belonging to very different genera and orders; as, the woad, Isatis tinctoria, Indigofera tinctoria, I. Anil, Nereum tinctorium, etc. It is a dark blue earthy substance, tasteless and odorless, with a copper-violet luster when rubbed. Indigo does not exist in the plants as such, but is obtained by decomposition of the glycoside indican. 
Having the color of, pertaining to, or derived from, indigo. Indigo berry (Bot.), the fruit of the West Indian shrub Randia aculeata, used as a blue dye. -- Indigo bird (Zoöl.), a small North American finch (Cyanospiza cyanea). The male is indigo blue in color. Called also indigo bunting. -- Indigo blue. (a) The essential coloring material of commercial indigo, from which it is obtained as a dark blue earthy powder, with a reddish luster, C16H10N2O2, which may be crystallized by sublimation. Indigo blue is also made from artificial amido cinnamic acid, and from artificial isatine; and these methods are of great commercial importance. Called also indigotin. (b) A dark, dull blue color like the indigo of commerce. -- Indigo brown (Chem.), a brown resinous substance found in crude indigo. -- Indigo copper (Min.), covellite. -- Indigo green, a green obtained from indigo. -- Indigo plant (Bot.), a leguminous plant of several species (genus Indigofera), from which indigo is prepared. The different varieties are natives of Asia, Africa, and America. Several species are cultivated, of which the most important are the I. tinctoria, or common indigo plant, the I. Anil, a larger species, and the I. disperma. -- Indigo purple, a purple obtained from indigo. -- Indigo red, a dyestuff, isomeric with indigo blue, obtained from crude indigo as a dark brown amorphous powder. -- Indigo snake (Zoöl.), the gopher snake. -- Indigo white, a white crystalline powder obtained by reduction from indigo blue, and by oxidation easily changed back to it; -- called also indigogen. -- Indigo yellow, a substance obtained from indigo. 
A dark red crystalline substance, isomeric with and resembling indigo blue, and obtained from isatide and dioxindol. 
To compose; to write, as a poem. Wounded I sing, tormented I indite. Herbert. 
A rare metallic element, discovered in certain ores of zinc, by means of its characteristic spectrum of two indigo blue lines; hence, its name. In appearance it resembles zinc, being white or lead gray, soft, malleable and easily fusible, but in its chemical relation it resembles aluminium or gallium. Symbol In. Atomic weight, 113.4. 
A substance resembling indigo blue, obtained artificially from certain isatogen compounds. 
A white, crystalline substance, C8H7N, obtained from blue indigo, and almost all indigo derivatives, by a process of reduction. It is also formed from albuminous matter, together with skatol, by putrefaction, and by fusion with caustic potash, and is present in human excrement, as well as in the intestinal canal of some herbivora. 
Done or being within doors; within a house or institution; domestic; as, indoor work. 
See Endow. 
To produce, or cause, by proximity without contact or transmission, as a particular electric or magnetic condition in a body, by the approach of another body in an opposite electric or magnetic state. 
Capacity for induction; the coefficient of self-induction. 
The act of induing, or state of being indued; investment; endowment. W. Montagu. 
An arrow poison, made from an apocynaceous plant (Strophanthus hispidus) of the Gaboon country; -- called also onaye. 
Unfitly; unsuitably; awkwardly. None of them are made foolishly or ineptly. Dr. H. More. 
That property of matter by which it tends when at rest to remain so, and when in motion to continue in motion, and in the same straight line or direction, unless acted on by some external force; - - sometimes called vis inertiæ. 
To ingraft, as a tree or plant, by the insertion of a bud or eye; to inoculate. The arts of grafting and ineying. J. Philips. 
To defame; to make infamous. [Obs.] Milton. Livia is infamed for the poisoning of her husband. Bacon. 
That loss of character, or public disgrace, which a convict incurs, and by which he is at common law rendered incompetent as a witness. 
A person who is not of full age, or who has not attained the age of legal capacity; a person under the age of twenty-one years; a minor. 
To bear or bring forth, as a child; hence, to produce, in general. [Obs.] This worthy motto, "No bishop, no king," is . . . infanted out of the same fears. Milton. 
A house-warming; especially, a reception, party, or entertainment given by a newly married couple, or by the husband upon receiving the wife to his house. [Written also infair.] [Scot., & Local, U. S.] 
Infected. Cf. Enfect. [Obs.] Shak. 
To contaminate with illegality or to expo 
Felt inwardly; heartfelt. [R.] The baron stood afar off, or knelt in submissive, acknowledged, infelt inferiority. Milman. 
Capable of being inferred or deduced from premises. [Written also inferrible.] H. Spencer. A sufficient argument . . . is inferable from these premises. Burke. 
Mischievous; hurtful; harassing. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To trouble greatly by numbers or by frequency of presence; to disturb; to annoy; to frequent and molest or harass; as, fleas infest dogs and cats; a sea infested with pirates. To poison vermin that infest his plants. Cowper. These, said the genius, are envy, avarice, superstition, love, with the like cares and passions that infest human life. Addison. And the cares, that infest the day, Shall fold their tents, like the Arabs, And as silently steal away. Longfellow. 
To arrange in a file or rank; to place in order. [Obs.] Holland. 
To cover with a film; to coat thinly; as, to infilm one metal with another in the process of gilding; to infilm the glass of a mirror. [R.] 
To weaken; to enfeeble. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 
Something infixed. [R.] Welsford. 
To bend; to cause to become curved; to make crooked; to deflect. J. Philips. 
To flow in. Wiseman. 
A flowing in; infusion. [R.] Bacon. 
The act of infolding; the state of being infolded. 
Without regular form; shapeless; ugly; deformed. Cotton. 
In an informal manner. 
Below; beneath; under; after; -- often used as a prefix. 
A sort of fillet worn by dignitaries, priests, and others among the ancient Romans. It was generally white. 
Infusion. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A pasture or meadow; generally one lying low, near a river. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
The aperture in a mold for pouring in the metal; the gate. Simmonds. 
The gorilla. 
Natural gift or talent; ability; wit; ingenuity. [Obs.] [Written also ingenie.] Becon. 
To take into, or as into, the stomach or alimentary canal. Sir T. Browne. 
To encircle to gird; to engirt. The wreath is ivy that ingirts our beams. Drayton. 
Surrounded; encircled. Fenton. 
Flame; blaze; a fire; a fireplace. [Obs. or Scot.] Burns. Ingle nock, the chimney corner. -- Ingle side, Ingle cheek, the fireside. 
A paramour; a favourite; a sweetheart; an engle. [Obs.] Toone. 
To cajole or coax; to wheedle. See Engle. [Obs.] 
To glut. [R.] Ascham. 
Steel cast in ingots from the Bessemer converter or open-hearth furnace. 
The groin. 
To swallow up or overwhelm in, or as in, a gulf; to cast into a gulf. See Engulf. A river large . . . Passed underneath ingulfed. Milton. 
To breathe or draw into the lungs; to inspire; as, to inhale air; -- opposed to exhale. Martin was walking forth to inhale the fresh breeze of the evening. Arbuthnot. 
To be inherent; to stick (in); to be fixed or permanently incorporated with something; to cleave (to); to belong, as attributes or qualities. They do but inhere in the subject that supports them. Digby. 
To place in a hive; to hive. 
To have inherent; to contain in itself; to possess. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 
To inclose in a hoop, or as in a hoop. [R.] Shak. 
A South American freshwater dolphin (Inia Boliviensis). It is ten or twelve feet long, and has a hairy snout. 
Pertaining to the inion. 
The external occipital protuberance of the skull. 
To form into an island; to surround. [Obs.] Drayton. 
To fill (a vessel, cavity, or tissue) with a fluid or other substance; as, to inject the blood vessels. 
See Enjoin. 
To do harm to; to impair the excellence and value of; to hurt; to damage; -- used in a variety of senses; as: (a) To hurt or wound, as the person; to impair soundness, as of health. (b) To damage or lessen the value of, as goods or estate. (c) To slander, tarnish, or impair, as reputation or character. (d) To impair or diminish, as happiness or virtue. (e) To give pain to, as the sensibilities or the feelings; to grieve; to annoy. (f) To impair, as the intellect or mind. When have I injured thee when done thee wrong Shak. 
Any damage or violation of, the person, character, feelings, rights, property, or interests of an individual; that which injures, or occasions wrong, loss, damage, or detriment; harm; hurt; loss; mischief; wrong; evil; as, his health was impaired by a severe injury; slander is an injury to the character. For he that doeth injury shall receve that he did evil. Wyclif(Col. iii. 25). Many times we do injury to a cause by dwelling on trifling arguments. I. Watts. Riot ascends above their loftiest towers, And injury and outrage. Milton. 
The step, or socket, in which the lower end of a millstone spindle runs. 
To put ink upon; to supply with ink; to blacken, color, or daub with ink. 
One who, or that which, inks; especially, in printing, the pad or roller which inks the type. 
Supplying or covering with ink. Inking roller, a somewhat elastic roller,used to spread ink over forms of type, copperplates, etc. -- Inking trough or table, a trough or table from which the inking roller receives its ink. 
A kind of tape or braid. Shak. 
To guess. [Prov. Eng.] "She inkled what it was." R. D. Blackmore. 
Same as Knock-knee. 
To fasten or bind, as with a knot; to knot together. Fuller. 
Consisting of, or resembling, ink; soiled with ink; black. "Inky blots." Shak. "Its inky blackness." Boyle. 
To work in, as lace; to embellish with work resembling lace; also, to lace or enlace. P. Fletcher. 
of Inlay. 
The interior part of a country. Shak. 
Into, or towards, the interior, away from the coast. Cook. The greatest waves of population have rolled inland from the east. S. Turner. 
See Inlard. 
To clear of outlawry or attainder; to place under the protection of the law. Burrill. 
To lay within; hence, to insert, as pieces of pearl, iviry, choice woods, or the like, in a groundwork of some other material; to form an ornamental surface; to diversify or adorn with insertions. Look,how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold. Shak. But these things are . . . borrowed by the monks to inlay their story. Milton. 
Matter or pieces of wood, ivory, etc., inlaid, or prepared for inlaying; that which is inserted or inlaid for ornament or variety. Crocus and hyacinth with rich inlay Broidered the ground. Milton. The sloping of the moonlit sward Was damask work, and deep inlay Of braided blooms. Tennyson. 
See Enlighten. 
See Enlist. 
To animate. [R.] B. Jonson. 
To lock in, or inclose. 
Internal; interior; secret. Didst thou but know the inly touch of love. Shak. 
Internally; within; in the heart. "Whereat he inly raged." Milton. 
The state of being an inmate. [R.] Craig. 
One who lives in the same house or apartment with another; a fellow lodger; esp.,one of the occupants of an asylum, hospital, or prison; by extension, one who occupies or lodges in any place or dwelling. So spake the enemy of mankind, inclos'd In serpent, inmate bad. Milton. 
Admitted as a dweller; resident; internal. [R.] "Inmate guests." Milton. 
To bring within meshes, as of a net; to enmesh. 
To inclose, as in a mew or cage. [R.] "Inmew the town below." Beau. & Fl. 
Deepest within; farthest from the surface or external part; innermost. And pierce the inmost center of the earth. Shak. The silent, slow, consuming fires, Which on my inmost vitals prey. Addison. 
To take lodging; to lodge. [R.] Addison. 
Originating in, or derived from, the constitution of the intellect, as opposed to acquired from experience; as, innate ideas. See A priori, Intuitive. There is an innate light in every man, discovering to him the first lines of duty in the common notions of good and evil. South. Men would not be guilty if they did not carry in their mind common notions of morality,innate and written in divine letters. Fleming (Origen). If I could only show,as I hope I shall . . . how men, barely by the use of their natural faculties, may attain to all the knowledge they have, without the help of any innate impressions; and may arrive at certainty without any such original notions or principles. Locke. 
To cause to exit; to call into being. [Obs.] "The first innating cause." Marston. 
In. [Obs.] And eke in what array that they were inne. Chaucer. 
More within. [Obs.] Baret. 
Lands recovered from the sea. Ainsworth. 
An Eskimo. 
A complex nitrogenous substance, which, by Hermann's hypothesis, is continually decomposed and reproduced in the muscles, during their life. 
To rail in; to inclose or surround, as with rails. Hooker. 
A small closed receptacle or set of receptacles of hard material, as lacquered wood, iron, bronze, or ivory, used by the Japanese to hold medicines, perfumes, and the like, and carried in the girdle. It is usually secured by a silk cord by which the wearer may grasp it, which cord passes through an ornamental button or knob called a netsuke. 
The entrance of an enemy into a country with purposes of hostility; a sudden or desultory incursion or invasion; raid; encroachment. The loss of Shrewsbury exposed all North Wales to the daily inroads of the enemy. Clarendon. With perpetual inroads to alarm, Though inaccessible, his fatal throne. Milton. 
To make an inroad into; to invade. [Obs.] The Saracens . . . conquered Spain, inroaded Aquitaine. Fuller. 
See Enroll. 
A rush inwards; as, the inrush of the tide. G. Eliot. 
To rush in. [Obs.] Holland. 
Without reason; madly; foolishly. 
To impress or mark with a seam or cicatrix. Pope. 
One of the Insecta; esp., one of the Hexapoda. See Insecta. 
One of the classes of Arthropoda, including those that have one pair of antennæ, three pairs of mouth organs, and breathe air by means of tracheæ, opening by spiracles along the sides of the body. In this sense it includes the Hexapoda, or six-legged insects and the Myriapoda, with numerous legs. See Insect, n. 
To set within something; to put or thrust in; to introduce; to cause to enter, or be included, or contained; as, to insert a scion in a stock; to insert a letter, word, or passage in a composition; to insert an advertisement in a newspaper. These words were very weakly inserted where they will be so liable to misconstruction. Bp. Stillingfleet. 
To infix. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One or more separate leaves inserted in a volume before binding; as: (a) A portion of the printed sheet in certain sizes of books which is cut off before folding, and set into the middle of the folded sheet to complete the succession of paging; -- also called offcut. (b) A page or pages of advertisements inserted. 
To embark. [Obs.] Shak. 
Within the sides of; in the interior; contained within; as, inside a house, book, bottle, etc. 
The inward parts; entrails; bowels; hence, that which is within; private thoughts and feelings. Here's none but friends; we may speak Our insides freely. Massinger. 
The quality of insisting, or being urgent or pressing; the act of dwelling upon as of special importance; persistence; urgency. 
The inside sole of a boot or shoe; also, a loose, thin strip of leather, felt, etc., placed 
To set a soul in; reflexively, to fix one's strongest affections on. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. [He] could not but insoul himself in her. Feltham. 
To yoke or harness, as oxen to a vehicle. [South Africa] 
To stud as with stars. [R.] "A golden throne instarred with gems." J. Barlow. 
To goad or urge forward; to set on; to provoke; to incite; -- used chiefly with reference to evil actions; as to instigate one to a crime. He hath only instigated his blackest agents to the very extent of their malignity. Bp. Warburton. 
To stop; to close; to make fast; as, to instop the seams. [Obs.] Dryden. 
See Ensue, v. i. 
Capable of being insulted or affronted. [R.] Emerson. 
To take in; to absorb. [Obs.] 
To underwrite; to make insurance; as, a company insures at three per cent. 
Untouched, especially by anything that harms, defiles, or the like; uninjured; undefiled; left complete or entire. Buckle. When all external differences have passed away, one element remains intact, unchanged, -- the everlasting basis of our common nature, the human soul. F. W. Robertson. 
See Entail, v. t. 
Uncontaminated. [Obs.] Wood. 
One who has the charge, direction, or management of some public business; a superintendent; as, an intendant of marine; an intendant of finance. 
The act of turning the mind toward an object; hence, a design; a purpose; intention; meaning; drift; aim. Be thy intents wicked or charitable. Shak. The principal intent of Scripture is to deliver the Hooker. To all intents, and purposes, in all applications or senses; practically; really; virtually; essentially. "He was miserable to all intents and purpose." L'Estrange. 
To deposit and cover in the earth; to bury; to inhume; as, to inter a dead body. Shak. 
Internal. [Obs.] Howell. 
To put for safe keeping in the interior of a place or country; to confine to one locality; as, to intern troops which have fled for refuge to a neutral country. 
The text of a book. [R.] Herrick. 
See Entice. 
Inward; internal; intimate. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 
A transparent, extensible membrane of extreme tenuity, which forms the innermost coating of grains of pollen. 
To the inside of; within. It is used in a variety of applications. 
To place in a tomb; to bury; to entomb. See Entomb. 
To utter with a musical or prolonged note or tone; to chant; as, to intone the church service. 
To utter a prolonged tone or a deep, protracted sound; to speak or recite in a measured, sonorous manner; to intonate. Pope. 
To twist in and out; to twine; to wreathe; to wind; to wring. Pope. 
See Entrap. Spenser. 
To intone. Cf. Entune. 
A bruise; a contusion. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A substance of very wide occurrence. It is found dissolved in the sap of the roots and rhizomes of many composite and other plants, as Inula, Helianthus, Campanula, etc., and is extracted by solution as a tasteless, white, semicrystalline substance, resembling starch, with which it is isomeric. It is intermediate in nature between starch and sugar. Called also dahlin, helenin, alantin, etc. 
To apply in use; to train; to discipline; to use or accustom till use gives little or no pain or inconvenience; to harden; to habituate; to practice habitually. "To inure our prompt obedience." Milton. He . . . did inure them to speak little. Sir T. North. Inured and exercised in learning. Robynson (More's Utopia). The poor, inured to drudgery and distress. Cowper. 
To pass into use; to take or have effect; to be applied; to serve to the use or benefit of; as, a gift of lands inures to the heirs. [Written also enure.] 
To put in an urn, as the ashes of the dead; hence, to bury; to intomb. The sepulcher Wherein we saw thee quietly inurned. Shak. 
Burnt in. [Obs.] 
To make an invasion. Brougham. 
To inveigh. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
To cover, as with a vail. W. Browne. 
One who invents. 
To change the position of; -- said of tones which form a chord, or parts which compose harmony. 
To undergo inversion, as sugar. 
Subjected to the process of inversion; inverted; converted; as, invert sugar. Invert sugar (Chem.), a variety of sugar, consisting of a mixture of dextrose and levulose, found naturally in fruits, and produced artificially by the inversion of cane sugar (sucrose); also, less properly, the grape sugar or dextrose obtained from starch. See Inversion, Dextrose, Levulose, and Sugar. 
An inverted arch. 
To inclose; to surround of hem in with troops, so as to intercept succors of men and provisions and prevent escape; to lay siege to; as, to invest a town. 
To make an investment; as, to invest in stocks; -- usually followed by in. 
Invincible. [Obs.] Joye. 
To render vile. [Obs.] Daniel. 
To give invitation. Milton. 
To call on for aid or protection; to invite earnestly or solemnly; to summon; to address in prayer; to solicit or demand by invocation; to implore; as, to invoke the Supreme Being, or to invoke His and blessing. Go, my dread lord, to your great grandsire's tomb, . . . Invoke his warlike spirit. Shak. 
To inclose or fortify as with a wall. Spenser. 
An inner wall; specifically (Metal.), the inner wall, or lining, of a blast furnace. 
See Inward. 
Inward sense; mind; understanding; conscience. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
Within. [Obs.] This purse hath she inwith her bosom hid. Chaucer. 
To work in or within. 
Worn, wrought, or stamped in. [R.] Milton. 
To surround or encompass as with a wreath. [Written also enwreathe.] Resplendent locks, inwreathed with beams. Milton. 
An oily liquid, Cl3.CHO, analogous to chloral and bromal. 
A salt of iodic acid. 
to, or containing, iodine; specif., denoting those compounds in which it has a relatively high valence; as, iodic acid. Iodic acid, a monobasic acid, consisting of iodine with three parts of oxygen and one of hydrogen. 
A binary compound of iodine, or one which may be regarded as binary; as, potassium iodide. 
A nonmetallic element, of the halogen group, occurring always in combination, as in the iodides. When isolated it is in the form of dark gray metallic scales, resembling plumbago, soft but brittle, and emitting a chlorinelike odor. Symbol I. Atomic weight 126.5. If heated, iodine volatilizes in beautiful violet vapors. 
A morbid state produced by the use of iodine and its compounds, and characterized by palpitation, depression, and general emaciation, with a pustular eruption upon the skin. 
To treat or impregnate with iodine or its compounds; as, to iodize a plate for photography. R. Hunt. 
A crystallized substance of the composition C4I4NH, technically tetra-iodo-pyrrol, used like iodoform. 
Pertaining to, or containing, iodine. See -ous (chemical suffix). Iodous acid, a hypothetical acid, analogous to chlorous acid. 
A silicate of alumina, iron, and magnesia, having a bright blue color and vitreous luster; cordierite. It is remarkable for its dichroism, and is also called dichroite. 
One of the elements which appear at the respective poles when a body is subjected to electro-chemical decomposition. Cf. Anion, Cation. 
Of or pertaining to Ionia or the Ionians; Ionic. -- n. 
Pertaining to the Ionic order of architecture, one of the three orders invented by the Greeks, and one of the five recognized by the Italian writers of the sixteenth century. Its distinguishing feature is a capital with spiral volutes. See Illust. of Capital. Ionic dialect (Gr. Gram.), a dialect of the Greek language, used in Ionia. The Homeric poems are written in what is designated old Ionic, as distinguished from new Ionic, or Attic, the dialect of all cultivated Greeks in the period of Athenian prosperity and glory. -- Ionic foot. (Pros.) See Ionic, n., 1. -- Ionic, or Ionian, mode (Mus.), an ancient mode, supposed to correspond with the modern major scale of C. -- Ionic sect, a sect of philosophers founded by Thales of Miletus, in Ionia. Their distinguishing tenet was, that water is the original principle of all things. -- Ionic type, a kind of heavy-faced type (as that of the following line). 
Of or pertaining to an ion; composed of ions. 
Ionic type. 
To separate (a compound) into ions, esp. by dissolving in water. --I`on*i*za"tion (#), n. 
The frequent use of the sound of iota (that of English e in be), as among the modern Greeks; also, confusion from sounding Littré. 
; sing. Iowa. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region now included in the State of Iowa. 
An abbreviation of Ipecacuanha, and in more frequent use. 
A decree of the Sultan. 
The native name of Persia. 
Iranian. 
Angry; incensed; enraged. [Recent] The irate colonel . . . stood speechless. Thackeray. Mr. Jaggers suddenly became most irate. Dickens. 
Anger; wrath. [Poet.] 
Full of ire; angry; wroth. "The ireful bastard Orleans." Shak. -- Ire"ful*ly, adv. 
Of or pertaining to the iris. "Irian nerves." Dunglison. 
Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow; prismatic; as, the iridal colors. Whewell. 
Of or pertaining to the iris of the eye. 
Of or pertaining to iridium; -- said specifically of those compounds in which iridium has a relatively high valence. 
The goddess of the rainbow, and swift-footed messenger of the gods. Shak. 
Having colors like those of the rainbow; iridescent. Holmes. 
Of or pertaining to Ireland or to its inhabitants; produced in Ireland. Irish elk. (Zoöl.) See under Elk. -- Irish moss. (a) (Bot.) Carrageen. (b) A preparation of the same made into a blanc mange. -- Irish poplin. See Poplin. -- Irish potato, the ordinary white potato, so called because it is a favorite article of food in Ireland. -- Irish reef, or Irishman's reef (Naut.), the head of a sail tied up. -- Irish stew, meat, potatoes, and onions, cut in small pieces and stewed. 
The natives or inhabitants of Ireland, esp. the Celtic natives or their descendants. 
An inflammation of the iris of the eye. 
To weary; to give pain; to annoy; -- used only impersonally at present. To see this sight, it irks my very soul. Shak. It irketh him to be here. M. Arnold. 
The most common and most useful metallic element, being of almost universal occurrence, usually in the form of an oxide (as hematite, magnetite, etc.), or a hydrous oxide (as limonite, turgite, etc.). It is reduced on an enormous scale in three principal forms; viz., cast iron, steel, and wrought iron. Iron usually appears dark brown, from oxidation or impurity, but when pure, or an fresh surface, is a gray or white metal. It is easily oxidized (rusted) by moisture, and is attacked by many corrosive agents. Symbol Fe (Latin Ferrum). Atomic weight 55.9. Specific gravity, pure iron, 7.86; cast iron, 7.1. In magnetic properties, it is superior to all other substances. 
The Australian Eucalyptus Sideroxylon, used largely by carpenters and shipbuilders; -- called also ironwood. 
One who, or that which, irons. 
Ironical. Sir T. Herbert. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, one of the principal linguistic stocks of the North American Indians. The territory of the northern Iroquoian tribes, of whom the Five Nations, or Iroquois proper, were the chief, extended from the shores of the St. Lawrence and of Lakes Huron, Ontario, and Erie south, through eastern Pennsylvania, to Maryland; that of the southern tribes, of whom the Cherokees were chief, formed part of Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia, Tennessee, and Kentucky. All of the tribes were agricultural, and they were noted for large, communal houses, palisaded towns, and ability to organize, as well as for skill in war. --n. 
Irascible; passionate. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Making irps. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A figure or polygon whose angles are equal. 
An orange-red crystalline substance, C8H5NO2, obtained by the oxidation of indigo blue. It is also produced from certain derivatives of benzoic acid, and is one important source of artificial indigo. [Written also, less properly, isatine.] 
A genus of herbs, some species of which, especially the Isatis tinctoria, yield a blue dye similar to indigo; woad. 
Pertaining to the goddess Isis; as, Isiac mysteries. 
A icicle. [Obs.] 
The principal goddess worshiped by the Egyptians. She was regarded as the mother of Horus, and the sister and wife of Osiris. The Egyptians adored her as the goddess of fecundity, and as the great benefactress of their country, who instructed their ancestors in the art of agriculture. 
The faith, doctrines, or religious system of the Mohammedans; Mohammedanism; Islam. 
See Isle, n., 2. Islands of the blessed (Myth.), islands supposed to lie in the Western Ocean, where the favorites of the gods are conveyed at death, and dwell in everlasting joy. 
An inhabitant of an island. 
See Aisle. 
A spot within another of a different color, as upon the wings of some insects. 
To cause to become an island, or like an island; to surround or encompass; to island. [Poetic] Isled in sudden seas of light. Tennyson. 
A little island. 
A doctrine or theory; especially, a wild or visionary theory. E. Everett. The world grew light-headed, and forth came a spawn of isms which no man can number. S. G. Goodrich. 
A line connecting or marking places upon the surface of the earth where height of the barometer reduced to sea level is the same either at a given time, or for a certain period (mean height), as for a year; an isopiestic line. [Written also isobare.] 
The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially in atmospheric pressure. Also, the theory, method, or application of isobaric science. 
A body or compound which is isomeric with another body or compound; a member of an isomeric series. 
Having the legs similar in structure; belonging to the Isopoda. -- n. 
An artificial ulcer, usually made in the fleshy part of the arm or leg, to produce the secretion and discharge of pus for the relief of some affected part. 
In pleading, to come to a point in fact or law, on which the parties join issue. 
Having no issue or progeny; childless. "The heavens . . . have left me issueless." Shak. 
One who issues, emits, or publishes. 
Same as Ixtle. 
An artificial nitrogenous base, isomeric with urea, and forming a white crystalline substance; -- called also isuretine. 
An early Latin version of the Scriptures (the Old Testament was translated from the Septuagint, and was also called the Italic version). 
An Italic letter, character, or type (see Italic, a., 2.); -- often in the plural; as, the Italics are the author's. Italic letters are used to distinguish words for emphasis, importance, antithesis, etc. Also, collectively, Italic letters. 
An eruption of small, isolated, acuminated vesicles, produced by the entrance of a parasitic mite (the Sarcoptes scabei), and attended with itching. It is transmissible by contact. 
Infected with the itch, or with an itching sensation. Cowper. 
Also; as an additional article. 
To make a note or memorandum of. I have itemed it in my memory. Addison. 
A passage; esp., the passage between the third and fourth ventricles in the brain; the aqueduct of Sylvius. 
Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It. 
The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in itself; it stands by itself. Borrowing of foreigners, in itself, makes not the kingdom rich or poor. Locke. 
See Yttria. 
A silver coin of Japan, worth about thirty-four cents. [Written also itzebu, ichebu, itcheboo, etc.] 
A genus of chilognathous myriapods. The body is long and round, consisting of numerous smooth, equal segments, each of which bears two pairs of short legs. It includes the galleyworms. See Chilognatha. 
Overgrown with ivy. 
Teeth; as, to show one's ivories. [Slang] Ivory black. See under Black, n. -- Ivory gull (Zoöl.), a white Arctic gull (Larus eburneus). -- Ivory nut (Bot.), the nut of a species of palm, the Phytephas macroarpa, often as large as a hen's egg. When young the seed contains a fluid, which gradually hardness into a whitish, close- grained, albuminous substance, resembling the finest ivory in texture and color, whence it is called vegetable ivory. It is wrought into various articles, as buttons, chessmen, etc. The palm is found in New Grenada. A smaller kind is the fruit of the Phytephas microarpa. The nuts are known in commerce as Corosso nuts. -- Ivory palm (Bot.), the palm tree which produces ivory nuts. -- Ivory shell (Zoöl.), any species of Eburna, a genus of marine gastropod shells, having a smooth surface, usually white with red or brown spots. -- Vegetable ivory, the meat of the ivory nut. See Ivory nut (above). 
A plant of the genus Hedera (H. helix), common in Europe. Its leaves are evergreen, dark, smooth, shining, and mostly five-pointed; the flowers yellowish and small; the berries black or yellow. The stem clings to walls and trees by rootlike fibers. Direct The clasping ivy where to climb. Milton. Ye myrtles brown, with ivy never sere. Milton. American ivy. (Bot.) See Virginia creeper. -- English ivy (Bot.), a popular name in America for the ivy proper (Hedera helix). -- German ivy (Bot.), a creeping plant, with smooth, succulent stems, and fleshy, light-green leaves; a species of Senecio (S. scandens). -- Ground ivy. (Bot.) Gill (Nepeta Glechoma). -- Ivy bush. (Bot.) See Mountain laurel, under Mountain. -- Ivy owl (Zoöl.), the barn owl. -- Ivy tod (Bot.), the ivy plant. Tennyson. -- Japanese ivy (Bot.), a climbing plant (Ampelopsis tricuspidata), closely related to the Virginia creeper. -- Poison ivy (Bot.), an American woody creeper (Rhus Toxicodendron), with trifoliate leaves, and greenish-white berries. It is exceedingly poisonous to the touch for most persons. -- To pipe in an ivy leaf, to console one's self as best one can. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- West Indian ivy, a climbing plant of the genus Marcgravia. 
Indeed; truly. See Ywis. [Written also iwys, iwisse, etc.] [Obs.] Ascham. 
A South African bulbous plant of the Iris family, remarkable for the brilliancy of its flowers. 
A genus of parasitic Acarina, which includes various species of ticks. See Tick, the insect. 
A variety of the chamois found in the Pyrenees. 
One of an Oriental religious sect which worships Satan or the Devil. The Izedis or Yezdis, the so-called Devil worshipers, still remain a numerous though oppressed people in Mesopotamia and adjacent countries. Tylor. 
See Izard. 
The letter z; -- formerly so called. 
To thrust; to stab; to punch. See Job, v. t. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.] 
A thrust or stab. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.] 
To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to utter gibberish or nonsense; to chatter. Swift. 
To utter rapidly or indistinctly; to gabble; as, to jabber French. Addison. 
Rapid or incoherent talk, with indistinct utterance; gibberish. Swift. 
One who jabbers. 
One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria and Xenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits. 
In Mexico and the southwestern United States, a kind of plastered house or hut, usually made by planting poles or timber in the ground, filling in between them with screen work or wickerwork, and daubing one or both sides with mud or adobe mortar; also, this method of construction. 
Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana and several allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They are able to run about over floating water weeds by means of their very long, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird. 
A cayman. See Yacare. 
Lying at length; as, the jacent posture. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. 
A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the East Indies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs in having its leaves entire. The fruit is of great size, weighing from thirty to forty pounds, and through its soft fibrous matter are scattered the seeds, which are roasted and eaten. The wood is of a yellow color, fine grain, and rather heavy, and is much used in cabinetwork. It is also used for dyeing a brilliant yellow. [Written also jak.] 
A coarse and cheap mediæval coat of defense, esp. one made of leather. Their horsemen are with jacks for most part clad. Sir J. Harrington. 
A pitcher or can of waxed leather; -- called also black jack. [Obs.] Dryden. 
To hunt game at night by means of a jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4, n. 
To move or lift, as a house, by means of a jack or jacks. See 2d Jack, n., 5. 
Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabiting Africa and Asia, related to the dog and wolf. They are cowardly, nocturnal, and gregarious. They feed largely on carrion, and are noted for their piercing and dismal howling. 
In ordnance, a strengthening band surrounding and reënforcing the tube in which the charge is fired. 
Wearing, or furnished with, a jacket. 
A Hebrew patriarch (son of Isaac, and ancestor of the Jews), who in a vision saw a ladder reaching up to heaven (Gen. xxviii. 12); -- also called Israel. And Jacob said . . . with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now I am become two bands. Gen. xxxii. 9, 10. Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. Gen. xxxii. 28. Jacob's ladder. (a) (Bot.) A perennial herb of the genus Polemonium (P. coeruleum), having corymbs of drooping flowers, usually blue. Gray. (b) (Naut.) A rope ladder, with wooden steps, for going aloft. R. H. Dana, Jr. (c) (Naut.) A succession of short cracks in a defective spar. -- Jacob's membrane. See Retina. -- Jacob's staff. (a) A name given to many forms of staff or weapon, especially in the Middle Ages; a pilgrim's staff. [Obs.] Spenser. (b) (Surveying) See under Staff. 
A stone, commonly of a pale to dark green color but sometimes whitish. It is very hard and compact, capable of fine polish, and is used for ornamental purposes and for implements, esp. in Eastern countries and among many early peoples. 
To become weary; to lose spirit. They . . . fail, and jade, and tire in the prosecution. South. 
The tricks of a jade. 
See Jager. 
A cleft or division. Jag bolt, a bolt with a nicked or barbed shank which resists retraction, as when leaded into stone. 
To cut into notches or teeth like those of a saw; to notch. [Written also jagg. Jagging iron, a wheel with a zigzag or jagged edge for cutting cakes or pastry into ornamental figures. 
A small load, as of hay or grain in the straw, or of ore. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] [Written also jagg.] Forby. 
To carry, as a load; as, to jag hay, etc. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 
A sharpshooter. See Yager. 
See Jag. 
Having jags; having rough, sharp notches, protuberances, or teeth; cleft; laciniate; divided; as, jagged rocks. " Jagged vine leaves' shade." Trench. -- Jag"ged*ly, adv. -- Jag"ged*ness, n. 
One who carries about a small load; a peddler. See 2d Jag. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
One who, or that which, jags; specifically: (a) jagging iron used for crimping pies, cakes, etc. (b) A toothed chisel. See Jag, v. t. Jagger spring, a spring beneath a seat, and resting on cleats or blocks in the body of a vehicle. Knight. 
Having jags; set with teeth; notched; uneven; as, jaggy teeth. Addison. 
A village or district the government and revenues of which are assigned to some person, usually in consideration of some service to be rendered, esp. the maintenance of troops. [Written also jaghire, jagir, etc.] [India] Whitworth. 
A large and powerful feline animal (Felis onca), ranging from Texas and Mexico to Patagonia. It is usually brownish yellow, with large, dark, somewhat angular rings, each generally inclosing one or two dark spots. It is chiefly arboreal in its habits. Called also the American tiger. 
Jehovah. Ps. lxviii. 4. 
A kind of prison; a building for the confinement of persons held in lawful custody, especially for minor offenses or with reference to some future judicial proceeding. [Written also gaol.] This jail I count the house of liberty. Milton. Jail bird, a prisoner; one who has been confined in prison. [Slang] - - Jail delivery, the release of prisoners from jail, either legally or by violence. -- Jail delivery commission. See under Gaol. -- Jail fever (Med.), typhus fever, or a disease resembling it, generated in jails and other places crowded with people; -- called also hospital fever, and ship fever. -- Jail liberties, or Jail limits, a space or district around a jail within which an imprisoned debtor was, on certain conditions, allowed to go at large. Abbott. -- Jail lock, a peculiar form of padlock; -- called also Scandinavian lock. 
To imprison. [R.] T. Adams (1614). [Bolts] that jail you from free life. Tennyson. 
The keeper of a jail or prison. [Written also jailor, gaoler.] 
The ahu or Asiatic gazelle. 
see Ils Jack. 
A privy. Shak. 
A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa), remarkable for having a tadpole larger than the adult, and hence called also paradoxical frog. 
An African parrot (Psittacus erithacus), very commonly kept as a cage bird; -- called also gray parrot. 
The tubers of the Mexican plant Ipomoea purga (or Exogonium purga), a climber much like the morning-glory. The abstract, extract, and powder, prepared from the tubers, are well known purgative medicines. Other species of Ipomoea yield several inferior kinds of jalap, as the I. Orizabensis, and I. tuberosa. False jalap, the root of Mirabilis Jalapa, four-o'clock, or marvel of Peru. 
Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks and signals. Farrow. 
A kind of frock for children. 
See Jamb. 
To bring (a vessel) so close to the wind that half her upper sails are laid aback. W. C. Russell. 
A preserve of fruit boiled with sugar and water; as, raspberry jam; currant jam; grape jam. Jam nut. See Check nut, under Check. -- Jam weld (Forging), a butt weld. See under Butt. 
The vertical side of any opening, as a door or fireplace; hence, less properly, any narrow vertical surface of wall, as the of a chimney-breast or of a pier, as distinguished from its face. Gwilt. 
See Jam, v. t. 
A fashionable cane. [Obs.] Tatler. 
One of intermediate order between angels and men. 
A silly, pert girl; -- corresponding to jackanapes. Massinger. 
To cause to sound harshly or inharmoniously; to produce discordant sounds with. Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune, and harsh. Shak. 
A female prater or babbler. 
A long pole on two wheels, used in hauling logs. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
See Jaunt. 
A machine of great antiquity, used in Bengal for raising water to irrigate land. Knight. 
See Jaunty. 
A Latin deity represented with two faces looking in opposite directions. Numa is said to have dedicated to Janus the covered passage at Rome, near the Forum, which is usually called the Temple of Janus. This passage was open in war and closed in peace. Dr. W. Smith. Janus cloth, a fabric having both sides dressed, the sides being of different colors, -- used for reversible garments. 
Work varnished and figured in the Japanese manner; also, the varnish or lacquer used in japanning. 
Of or pertaining to Japan, or to the lacquered work of that country; as, Japan ware. Japan allspice (Bot.), a spiny shrub from Japan (Chimonanthus fragrans), related to the Carolina allspice. -- Japan black (Chem.), a quickly drying black lacquer or varnish, consisting essentially of asphaltum dissolved in naphtha or turpentine, and used for coating ironwork; -- called also Brunswick black, Japan lacquer, or simply Japan. -- Japan camphor, ordinary camphor brought from China or Japan, as distinguished from the rare variety called borneol or Borneo camphor. -- Japan clover, or Japan pea (Bot.), a cloverlike plant (Lespedeza striata) from Eastern Asia, useful for fodder, first noticed in the Southern United States about 1860, but now become very common. During the Civil War it was called variously Yankee clover and Rebel clover. -- Japan earth. See Catechu. -- Japan ink, a kind of writing ink, of a deep, glossy black when dry. -- Japan varnish, a varnish prepared from the milky juice of the Rhus vernix, a small Japanese tree related to the poison sumac. 
A branch of the equatorial current of the Pacific, washing the eastern coast of Formosa and thence flowing northeastward past Japan and merging into the easterly drift of the North Pacific; -- called also Kuro-Siwo, or Black Stream, in allusion to the deep blue of its water. It is similar in may ways to the Gulf Stream. 
To jest; to play tricks; to jeer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To mock; to trick. Chaucer. I have not been putting a jape upon you. Sir W. Scott. The coy giggle of the young lady to whom he has imparted his latest merry jape. W. Besant. 
A jester; a buffoon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Jesting; buffoonery. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A turn. [Only in phrase.] On the jar, on the turn, ajar, as a door. 
In deep well boring, a device resembling two long chain links, for connecting a percussion drill to the rod or rope which works it, so that the drill is driven down by impact and is jerked loose when jammed. 
To wet; to bemire. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A callous tumor on the leg of a horse, below the hock. 
To emit a harsh or discordant sound. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
Confused, unintelligible language; gibberish; hence, an artificial idiom or dialect; cant language; slang. "A barbarous jargon." Macaulay. "All jargon of the schools." Prior. The jargon which serves the traffickers. Johnson. 
To utter jargon; to emit confused or unintelligible sounds; to talk unintelligibly, or in a harsh and noisy manner. The noisy jay, Jargoning like a foreigner at his food. Longfellow. 
A variety of zircon. See Zircon. 
A chief; an earl; in English history, one of the leaders in the Danish and Norse invasions. Longfellow. 
An earthnut. Dr. Prior. 
The mahoganylike wood of the Australian Eucalyptus marginata. See Eucalyptus. 
A wig; -- so called, perhaps, from being made of, or resembling, Jersey yarn. Thackeray. 
Jasper. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Having the surface decorated with cloudings and streaks, somewhat as if imitating jasper. 
An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of red, yellow, and other dull colors, breaking with a smooth surface. It admits of a high polish, and is used for vases, seals, snuff boxes, etc. When the colors are in stripes or bands, it is called striped or banded jasper. The Egyptian pebble is a brownish yellow jasper. Jasper opal, a yellow variety of opal resembling jasper. -- Jasper ware, a delicate kind of earthenware invented by Josiah Wedgwood. It is usually white, but is capable of receiving color. 
To ride hard; to jounce. [Obs.] Spurr'd, galled and tired by jauncing Bolingbroke. Shak. 
To jolt; to jounce. [Obs.] Bale. 
In a jaunty manner. 
Airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected or fantastical manner. 
Of or pertaining to Java, or to the people of Java. -- n. sing. & pl. 
A vagabond. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The inner end of a boom or gaff, hollowed in a half circle so as to move freely on a mast. 
To scold; to clamor. [Law] Smollett. 
To assail or abuse by scolding. [Law] 
Having jaws; -- chiefly in composition; as, lantern-jawed. "Jawed like a jetty." Skelton. 
Scolding; clamorous or abusive talk. [Slang] H. Kingsley. 
See Yawn. [Obs.] Marston. 
Relating to the jaws. Gayton. 
Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus, Cyanocitta, and allied genera. They are allied to the crows, but are smaller, more graceful in form, often handsomely colored, and usually have a crest. 
See Jet. [Obs.] 
A gem of an azure color. [Obs.] 
A footman; a flunky. [Slang, Eng.] Thackeray. 
A twilled cotton cloth. Satin jean, a kind of jean woven smooth and glossy, after the manner of satin. 
See 1st Jeer (b). 
See Jet. [Obs.] 
See Gee. 
A morass; a shallow lake. [Written also jhil.] [India] Whitworth. 
An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting or lowering the lower yards of a ship. Jeer capstan (Naut.), an extra capstan usually placed between the foremast and mainmast. 
To utter sarcastic or scoffing reflections; to speak with mockery or derision; to use taunting language; to scoff; as, to jeer at a speaker. But when he saw her toy and gibe and jeer. Spenser. 
To treat with scoffs or derision; to address with jeers; to taunt; to flout; to mock at. And if we can not jeer them, we jeer ourselves. B. Jonson. 
A railing remark or reflection; a scoff; a taunt; a biting jest; a flout; a jibe; mockery. Midas, exposed to all their jeers, Had lost his art, and kept his ears. Swift. 
A scoffer; a railer; a mocker. 
See 1st Jeer (b). 
See Jig, 6. 
A coachman; a driver; especially, one who drives furiously. [Colloq.] 
The quality of being jejune; jejuneness. 
To jelly. [Colloq.] 
To become jelly; to come to the state or consistency of jelly. 
Spruce. [Slang, Eng.] Smart. 
A Mexican name for the Sisal hemp (Agave rigida, var. Sisalana); also, its fiber. [Written also heniequen.] 
See Yenite. 
A small Spanish horse; a genet. 
A familiar name of the European wren. Jenny ass (Zoöl.), a female ass. 
A machine for spinning a number of threads at once, -- used in factories. 
Any small jumping rodent of the genus Dipus, esp. D. Ægyptius, which is common in Egypt and the adjacent countries. The jerboas have very long hind legs and a long tail. [Written also gerboa.] 
A blunt javelin used by the people of the Levant, especially in mock fights. [Written also jerreed, jerid.] Byron. 
Same as Jereed. 
To cut into long slices or strips and dry in the sun; as, jerk beef. See Charqui. 
A North American river chub (Hybopsis biguttatus). 
A jacket or short coat; a close waistcoat. Shak. 
A male gyrfalcon. 
Moving by jerks and starts; characterized by abrupt transitions; as, a jerky vehicle; a jerky style. 
The chief city of Palestine, intimately associated with the glory of the Jewish nation, and the life and death of Jesus Christ. Jerusalem artichoke Etym: [Perh. a corrupt. of It. girasole i.e., sunflower, or turnsole. See Gyre, Solar.] (Bot.) (a) An American plant, a perennial species of sunflower (Helianthus tuberosus), whose tubers are sometimes used as food. (b) One of the tubers themselves. -- Jerusalem cherry (Bot.), the popular name of either of either of two species of Solanum (S. Pseudo-capsicum and S. capsicastrum), cultivated as ornamental house plants. They bear bright red berries of about the size of cherries. -- Jerusalem oak (Bot.), an aromatic goosefoot (Chenopodium Botrys), common about houses and along roadsides. -- Jerusalem sage (Bot.), a perennial herb of the Mint family (Phlomis tuberosa). -- Jerusalem thorn (Bot.), a spiny, leguminous tree (Parkinsonia aculeata), widely dispersed in warm countries, and used for hedges. -- The New Jerusalem, Heaven; the Celestial City. 
A short strap of leather or silk secured round the leg of a hawk, to which the leash or line, wrapped round the falconer's hand, was attached when used. See Illust. of Falcon. Like a hawk, which feeling freed From bells and jesses which did let her flight. Spenser. 
Any representation or suggestion of the genealogy of Christ, in decorative art; as: (a) A genealogical tree represented in stained glass. (b) A candlestick with many branches, each of which bears the name of some one of the descendants of Jesse; -- called also tree of Jesse. Jesse window (Arch.), a window of which the glazing and tracery represent the tree of Jesse. 
Having jesses on, as a hawk. 
Given to jesting; full of jokes. 
Jesus. [Poetical] 
One of a religious order founded by Ignatius Loyola, and approved in 1540, under the title of The Society of Jesus. 
The Savior; the name of the Son of God as announced by the angel to his parents; the personal name of Our Lord, in distinction from Christ, his official appellation. Luke i. 31. Thou shalt call his name Jesus; for he shall save his people from their sins. Matt. i. 21. 
Same as 2d Get. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A variety of lignite, of a very compact texture and velvet black color, susceptible of a good polish, and often wrought into mourning jewelry, toys, buttons, etc. Formerly called also black amber. Jet ant (Zoöl.), a blackish European ant (Formica fuliginosa), which builds its nest of a paperlike material in the trunks of trees. 
To spout; to emit in a stream or jet. A dozen angry models jetted steam. Tennyson. 
See Jetty, n. Burke. 
One who struts; one who bears himself jauntily; a fop. [Obs.] Palsgrave. 
A metal counter used in playing cards. 
Made of jet, or like jet in color. The people . . . are of a jetty. Sir T. Browne. 
A part of a building that jets or projects beyond the rest, and overhangs the wall below. 
To jut out; to project. [Obs.] Florio. 
Originally, one belonging to the tribe or kingdom of Judah; after the return from the Babylonish captivity, any member of the new state; a Hebrew; an Israelite. Jew's frankincense, gum styrax, or benzoin. -- Jew's mallow (Bot.), an annual herb (Corchorus olitorius) cultivated in Syria and Egypt as a pot herb, and in India for its fiber. -- Jew's pitch, asphaltum; bitumen. -- The Wandering Jew, an imaginary personage, who, for his cruelty to the Savior during his passion, is doomed to wander on the earth till Christ's second coming. 
To dress, adorn, deck, or supply with jewels, as a dress, a sword hilt, or a watch; to bespangle, as with jewels. The long gray tufts . . . are jeweled thick with dew. M. Arnold. 
A Hebrew woman. 
Same as Juise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of or resembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish. -- Jew"ish*ly, adv. -- Jew"ish*ness, n. 
Judea; also, a district inhabited by Jews; a Jews' quarter. Chaucer. Teaching throughout all Jewry. Luke xxiii. 5. 
A wild goat (Capra Jemlaica) which inhabits the loftiest mountains of India. It has long, coarse hair, forming a thick mane on its head and neck. 
A triangular sail set upon a stay or halyard extending from the foremast or fore-topmast to the bowsprit or the jib boom. Large vessels often carry several jibe; as, inner jib; outer jib; flying jib; etc. 
To move restively backward or sidewise, -- said of a horse; to balk. [Written also jibb.] [Eng.] 
A horse that jibs. [Eng.] 
To shift, as the boom of a fore-and-aft sail, from one side of a vessel to the other when the wind is aft or on the quarter. See Gybe. 
To change a ship's course so as to cause a shifting of the boom. See Jibe, v. t., and Gybe. 
A moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy. [Colloq.] J. & H. Smith. 
A light, brisk musical movement. Hot and hasty, like a Scotch jib. Shak. 
To sort or separate, as ore in a jigger or sieve. See Jigging, n. 
To dance a jig; to skip about. You jig, you amble, and you lisp. Shak. 
A species of flea (Sarcopsylla, or Pulex, penetrans), which burrows beneath the skin. See Chigoe. 
The act or using a jig; the act of separating ore with a jigger, or wire-bottomed sieve, which is moved up and down in water. Jigging machine. (a) (Mining) A machine for separating ore by the process of jigging. (b) (Metal Working) A machine with a rotary milling cutter and a templet by which the action of the cutter is guided or limited; -- used for forming the profile of an irregularly shaped piece; a profiling machine. 
To wriggle or frisk about; to move awkwardly; to shake up and down. 
A jolting motion; a jogging pace. 
Having a jolting motion. 
A young woman; a sweetheart. See Gill. Beau. & Fl. 
A woman who capriciously deceives her lover; a coquette; a flirt. Otway. 
To cast off capriciously or unfeeling, as a lover; to deceive in love. Locke. 
To play the jilt; to practice deception in love; to discard lovers capriciously. Congreve. 
A short crowbar used by burglars in breaking open doors. [Written also jemmy.] 
Neat; handsome; elegant. See Gimp. 
A small portable piece of ordnance, mounted on a swivel. [Written also gingal and jingall.] [India] 
To cause to give a sharp metallic sound as a little bell, or as coins shaken together; to tinkle. The bells she jingled, and the whistle blew. Pope. 
One who, or that which, jingles. 
The policy of the Jingoes, so called. See Jingo, 2. [Cant, Eng.] 
A genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power of assuming various forms. [Written also jin, djinnee, etc.] 
A person, object, influence, or supernatural being which is supposed to bring bad luck or to cause things to go wrong. [Slang] 
A waistcoat or kind of stays for women. 
To buy and sell, as a broker; to purchase of importers or manufacturers for the purpose of selling to retailers; as, to job goods. 
The hero of the book of that name in the Old Testament; the typical patient man. Job's comforter. (a) A false friend; a tactless or malicious person who, under pretense of sympathy, insinuates rebukes. (b) A boil. [Colloq.] -- Job's news, bad news. Carlyle. -- Job's tears (Bot.), a kind of grass (Coix Lacryma), with hard, shining, pearly grains. 
A blockhead. [Colloq. & Obs.] H. Taylor. 
To play or act the jockey; to cheat. 
Given to jokes and jesting; containing a joke, or abounding in jokes; merry; sportive; humorous. To quit their austerity and be jocose and pleasant with an adversary. Shaftesbury. All . . . jocose or comical airs should be excluded. I. Watts. 
Merry; cheerful; gay; airy; lively; sportive. Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops. Shak. Rural sports and jocund strains. Prior. -- Joc"und*ly, adv. -- Joc"und*ness, n. 
Merrily; cheerfully. Gray. 
See Johannes. 
To move by jogs or small shocks, like those of a slow trot; to move slowly, leisurely, or monotonously; -- usually with on, sometimes with over. Jog on, jog on, the footpath way. Shak. So hung his destiny, never to rot, While he might still jog on and keep his trot. Milton . The good old ways our sires jogged safely over. R. Browning. 
One who jogs. Dryden. 
To join by means of joggles, so as to prevent sliding apart; sometimes, loosely, to dowel. The struts of a roof are joggled into the truss posts. Gwilt. 
To shake or totter; to slip out of place. 
A notch or tooth in the joining surface of any piece of building material to prevent slipping; sometimes, but incorrectly, applied to a separate piece fitted into two adjacent stones, or the like. Joggle joint (Arch.), a joint in any kind of building material, where the joining surfaces are made with joggles. 
A proper name of a man. John-apple, a sort of apple ripe about St. John's Day. Same as Apple-john. -- John Bull, an ideal personification of the typical characteristics of an Englishman, or of the English people. -- John Bullism, English character. W. Irving. -- John Doe (Law), the name formerly given to the fictitious plaintiff in an action of ejectment. Mozley & W. -- John Doree, John Dory. Etym: [John (or F. jaune yellow) + Doree, Dory.] (Zoöl.) An oval, compressed, European food fish (Zeus faber). Its color is yellow and olive, with golden, silvery, and blue reflections. It has a round dark spot on each side. Called also dory, doree, and St. Peter's fish. 
A sculpin. [Local cant] Johny Crapaud (, a jocose designation of a Frenchman, or of the French people, collectively. 
To be contiguous, close, or in contact; to come together; to unite; to mingle; to form a union; as, the hones of the skull join; two rivers join. Whose house joined hard to the synagogue. Acts xviii. 7. Should we again break thy commandments, and join in affinity with the people of these abominations Ezra ix. 14. Nature and fortune joined to make thee great. Shak. 
The line joining two points; the point common to two intersecting lines. Henrici. 
The art, or trade, of a joiner; the work of a joiner. A piece of joinery . . . whimsically dovetailed. Burke. 
A plane of fracture, or divisional plane, of a rock transverse to the stratification. 
To fit as if by joints; to coalesce as joints do; as, the stones joint, neatly. 
A piece of timber laid horizontally, or nearly so, to which the planks of the floor, or the laths or furring strips of a ceiling, are nailed; -- called, according to its position or use, binding joist, bridging joist, ceiling joist, trimming joist, etc. See Illust. of Double-framed floor, under Double, a. 
To fit or furnish with joists. Johnson. 
To make merry with; to make jokes upon; to rally; to banter; as, to joke a comrade. 
To do something for sport, or as a joke; to be merry in words or actions; to jest. He laughed, shouted, joked, and swore. Macaulay. 
See Rest bower, under 2d Bower. 
Joyful; merry; pleasant; jolly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A boat of medium size belonging to a ship. 
To shake with short, abrupt risings and fallings, as a carriage moving on rough ground; as, the coach jolts. 
To cause to shake with a sudden up and down motion, as in a carriage going over rough ground, or on a high-trotting horse; as, the horse jolts the rider; fast driving jolts the carriage and the passengers. 
A sudden shock or jerk; a jolting motion, as in a carriage moving over rough ground. The first jolt had like to have shaken me out. Swift. 
One who, or that which, jolts. 
That jolts; as, a jolty coach. [Colloq.] 
The Hebrew prophet, who was cast overboard as one who endangered the ship; hence, any person whose presence is unpropitious. Jonah crab (Zoöl.), a large crab (Cancer borealis) of the eastern coast of the United States, sometimes found between tides, but usually in deep water. 
See Jorum. 
A large drinking vessel; also, its contents. [Colloq. Eng.] Forby. 
An outer garment worn in the 18th century; esp., a woman's riding habit, buttoned down the front. Fairholt. 
A small gudgeon. 
A Chinese household divinity; a Chinese idol. "Critic in jars and josses." Colman (1761). Joss house, a Chinese temple or house for the Chinese mode of worship. -- Joss stick, a reed covered with a paste made of the dust of odoriferous woods, or a cylinder made wholly of the paste; -- burned by the Chinese before an idol. 
A command to a horse, probably meaning "stand still." [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To run against and shake; to push out of the way; to elbow; to hustle; to disturb by crowding; to crowd against. "Bullies jostled him." Macaulay. Systems of movement, physical, intellectual, and moral, which are perpetually jostling each other. I. Taylor. 
To push; to crowd; to hustle. None jostle with him for the wall. Lamb. 
A conflict by collisions; a crowding or bumping together; interference. The jostle of South African nationalities and civilization. The Nation. 
An iota; a point; a tittle; the smallest particle. Cf. Bit, n. Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. Matt. v. 18. Neither will they bate One jot of ceremony. Shak. 
To set down; to make a brief note of; -- usually followed by down. 
An iron collar fastened to a wall or post, formerly used in Scotland as a kind of pillory. [Written also juggs.] See Juke. Sir W. Scott. 
See Juke. 
See Jowl. 
A unit of work which is equal to 107 units of work in the C. G. S. system of units (ergs), and is practically equivalent to the energy expended in one second by an electric current of one ampere in a resistance of one ohm. One joule is approximately equal to 0.738 foot pounds. Joule's equivalent. See under Equivalent, n. 
To jolt; to shake, especially by rough riding or by driving over obstructions. 
A jolt; a shake; a hard trot. 
To engage in mock combat on horseback, as two knights in the lists; to tilt. [Written also just.] For the whole army to joust and tourney. Holland. 
A tilting match; a mock combat on horseback between two knights in the lists or inclosed field. [Written also just.] Gorgeous knights at joust and tournament. Milton. 
The planet Jupiter. [R.] Pope. 
One who lives a jovial life. Bp. Hall. 
Of or pertaining to Jove, or Jupiter (either the deity or the planet). 
The cheek; the jaw. [Written also jole, choule, chowle, and geoule.] Cheek by jowl, with the cheeks close together; side by side; in close proximity. "I will go with three cheek by jole." Shak. " Sits cheek by jowl." Dryden. 
To throw, dash, or knock. [Obs.] How the knave jowls it to the ground. Shak. 
A dog with large jowls, as the beagle. 
A mounted peddler of fish; -- called also jouster. [Obs.] Carew. 
To rejoice; to be glad; to delight; to exult. I will joy in the God of my salvation. Hab. iii. 18. In whose sight all things joy. Milton. 
Enjoyment; gayety; festivity; joyfulness. Spenser. Some days of joyance are decreed to all. Byron. From what hid fountains doth thy joyance flow Trench. 
Full of joy; having or causing joy; very glad; as, a joyful heart. "Joyful tidings." Shak. My soul shall be joyful in my God. Is. lxi. 10. Sad for their loss, but joyful of our life. Pope. -- Joy"ful*ly, adv. -- Joy"ful*ness, n. 
Glad; gay; merry; joyful; also, affording or inspiring joy; with of before the word or words expressing the cause of joy. Is this your joyous city Is. xxiii. 7. They all as glad as birds of joyous prime. Spenser. And joyous of our conquest early won. Dryden. 
A vessel for holding ale or wine; a jug. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The mane of an animal. 
Fringed with long, pendent hair. 
Uttering songs of triumph; shouting with joy; triumphant; exulting. "The jubilant age." Coleridge. While the bright pomp ascended jubilant. Milton. 
The disciple who betrayed Christ. Hence: A treacherous person; one who betrays under the semblance of friendship. -- a. 
Of or pertaining to Judea. -- n. 
A public officer who is invested with authority to hear and determine litigated causes, and to administer justice between parties in courts held for that purpose. The parts of a judge in hearing are four: to direct the evidence; to moderate length, repetition, or impertinency of speech; to recapitulate, select, and collate the material points of that which hath been said; and to give the rule or sentence. Bacon. 
Created by judges or judicial decision; -- applied esp. to law applied or established by the judicial interpretation of statutes so as extend or restrict their scope, as to meet new cases, to provide new or better remedies, etc., and often used opprobriously of acts of judicial interpretation considered as doing this. 
One who judges. Sir K. Digby. 
Pertaining to, or in the region of, the malar, or cheek bone. 
The figures of two heads on a medal or coin, either side by side or joined. 
A judge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A Roman measure of land, measuring 28,800 square feet, or 240 feet in length by 120 in breadth. 
An East Indian falcon. See Lugger. 
To deceive by trick or artifice. Is't possible the spells of France should juggle Men into such strange mysteries Shak. 
Cheating; tricky. -- Jug"gling*ly, adv. 
See Jougs. [Scot.] 
The characteristic fluid of any vegetable or animal substance; the sap or part which can be expressed from fruit, etc.; the fluid part which separates from meat in cooking. An animal whose juices are unsound. Arbuthnot. The juice of July flowers. B. Jonson. The juice of Egypt's grape. Shak. Letters which Edward Digby wrote in lemon juice. Macaulay. Cold water draws the juice of meat. Mrs. Whitney. 
To moisten; to wet. [Obs.] Fuller. 
A bounding with juice; succulent. Bacon. 
Judgment; justice; sentence. [Obs.] Up [on] pain of hanging and high juise. Chaucer. 
The sweet and edible drupes (fruits) of several Mediterranean and African species small trees, of the genus Zizyphus, especially the Z. jujuba, Z. vulgaris, Z. mucronata, and Z. Lotus. The last named is thought to have furnished the lotus of the ancient Libyan Lotophagi, or lotus eaters. Jujube paste, the dried or inspissated jelly of the jujube; also, a confection made of gum arabic sweetened. 
To bend the neck; to bow or duck the head. [Written also jook and jouk.] The money merchant was so proud of his trust that he went juking and tossing of his head. L' Estrange. 
The neck of a bird. [Prov. Eng.] 
To perch on anything, as birds do. [Obs.] 
a sweet, demulcent, acidulous, or mucilaginous mixture, used as a vehicle. Milton. Honey in woods, juleps in brooks. H. Vaughan. 
Relating to, or derived from, Julius Cæsar. Julian calendar, the calendar as adjusted by Julius Cæsar, in which the year was made to consist of 365 days, each fourth year having 366 days. -- Julian epoch, the epoch of the commencement of the Julian calendar, or 46 b. c. -- Julian period, a chronological period of 7,980 years, combining the solar, lunar, and indiction cycles (28 x 19 x 15 = 7,980), being reckoned from the year 4713 B. C., when the first years of these several cycles would coincide, so that if any year of the period be divided by 28, 19, or 15, the remainder will be the year of the corresponding cycle. The Julian period was proposed by Scaliger, to remove or avoid ambiguities in chronological dates, and was so named because composed of Julian years. -- Julian year, the year of 365 days, 6 hours, adopted in the Julian calendar, and in use until superseded by the Gregorian year, as established in the reformed or Gregorian calendar. 
A catkin or ament. See Ament. 
The seventh month of the year, containing thirty-one days. 
The fabled offspring of a bull and a mare. Locke. 
To mix in a confused mass; to put or throw together without order; -- often followed by together or up. Why dost thou blend and jumble such inconsistencies together Burton. Every clime and age Jumbled together. Tennyson. 
To meet or unite in a confused way; to mix confusedly. Swift. 
Confused mixture. [Low] 
A beast; especially, a beast of burden. [Obs.] Fitter for juments than men to feed on. Burton. 
A bodice worn instead of stays by women in the 18th century. 
To bore with a jumper. To jump a claim, to enter upon and take possession of land to which another has acquired a claim by prior entry and occupation. [Western U. S. & Australia] See Claim, n., 3. -- To jump one's bail, to abscond while at liberty under bail bonds. [Slang, U. S.] 
A dislocation in a stratum; a fault. 
Nice; exact; matched; fitting; precise. [Obs.] "Jump names." B. Jonson. 
Exactly; pat.[Obs.] Shak. 
The larva of the cheese fly. See Cheese fly, under Cheese. 
A loose upper garment; as: (a) A sort of blouse worn by workmen over their ordinary dress to protect it. (b) A fur garment worn in Arctic journeys. 
Jumping, or inducing to jump; characterized by jumps; hence, extremely nervous. 
Any bird of the genus Junco, which includes several species of North American finches; -- called also snowbird, or blue snowbird. 
The sixth month of the year, containing thirty days. And what is so rare as a day in June Then, if ever, come perfect days. Lowell. June beetle, June bug (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large brown beetles of the genus Lachnosterna and related genera; -- so called because they begin to fly, in the northern United States, about the first of June. The larvæ of the June beetles live under ground, and feed upon the roots of grasses and other plants. Called also May bug or May beetle. -- June grass (Bot.), a New England name for Kentucky blue grass. See Blue glass, and Illustration in Appendix. 
A dense growth of brushwood, grasses, reeds, vines, etc.; an almost impenetrable thicket of trees, canes, and reedy vegetation, as in India, Africa, Australia, and Brazil. The jungles of India are of bamboos, canes, and other palms, very difficult to penetrate. Balfour (Cyc. of India). Jungle bear (Zoöl.), the aswail or sloth bear. -- Jungle cat (Zoöl.), the chaus. -- Jungle cock (Zoöl.), the male of a jungle fowl. -- Jungle fowl. (Zoöl.) (a) Any wild species of the genus Gallus, of which several species inhabit India and the adjacent islands; as, the fork-tailed jungle fowl (G. varius) of Java, G. Stanleyi of Ceylon, and G. Bankiva of India. 
Consisting of jungles; abounding with jungles; of the nature of a jungle. 
The state or quality of being junior. 
A fragment of any solid substance; a thick piece. See Chunk. [Colloq.] Lowell. 
Hard salted beef supplied to ships. Junk bottle , a stout bottle made of thick dark-colored glass. -- Junk dealer, a dealer in old cordage, old metal, glass, etc. -- Junk hook (Whaling), a hook for hauling heavy pieces of blubber on deck. -- Junk ring. (a) A packing of soft material round the piston of a steam engine. (b) A metallic ring for retaining a piston packing in place; (c) A follower. -- Junk shop, a shop where old cordage, and ship's tackle, old iron, old bottles, old paper, etc., are kept for sale. -- Junk vat (Leather Manuf.), a large vat into which spent tan liquor or ooze is pumped. -- Junk wad (Mil.), a wad used in proving cannon; also used in firing hot shot. 
A large vessel, without keel or prominent stem, and with huge masts in one piece, used by the Chinese, Japanese, Siamese, Malays, etc., in navigating their waters. 
A young German noble or squire; esp., a member of the aristocratic party in Prussia. 
To feast; to banquet; to make an entertainment; -- sometimes applied opprobriously to feasting by public officers at the public cost. Job's children junketed and feasted together often. South. 
To give entertainment to; to feast. The good woman took my lodgings over my head, and was in such a hurry to junket her neighbors. Walpole. 
The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven, and the goddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the Greek Hera. Sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes. Shak. 
See Gimmal. 
A council; a convention; a tribunal; an assembly; esp., the grand council of state in Spain. 
A secret council to deliberate on affairs of government or politics; a number of men combined for party intrigue; a faction; a cabal; as, a junto of ministers; a junto of politicians. The puzzling sons of party next appeared, In dark cabals and mighty juntos met. Thomson. 
Same as Jupon. 
1. A range of mountains between France and Switzerland. 
Of or pertaining to jurisprudence. 
The memorandum or certificate at the end of an asffidavit, or a bill or answer in chancery, showing when, before whom, and (in English practice), where, it was sworn or affirmed. Wharton. Bouvier. 
Jordan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A yellow carangoid fish of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts (Caranx chrysos), most abundant southward, where it is valued as a food fish; -- called also hardtail, horse crevallé, jack, buffalo jack, skipjack, yellow mackerel, and sometimes, improperly, horse mackerel. Other species of Caranx (as C. fallax) are also sometimes called jurel. 
One who professes the science of law; one versed in the law, especially in the civil law; a writer on civil and international law. It has ever been the method of public jurists to Burke. 
A member of a jury; a juryman. I shall both find your lordship judge and juror. Shak. 
For temporary use; -- applied to a temporary contrivance. Jury mast, a temporary mast, in place of one that has been carried away, or broken. -- Jury rudder, a rudder constructed for temporary use. 
A body of men, usually twelve, selected according to law, impaneled and sworn to inquire into and try any matter of fact, and to render their true verdict according to the evidence legally adduced. See Grand jury under Grand, and Inquest. The jury, passing on the prisoner's life. Shak. 
A delicate fiber, produced in the Philippine Islands from an unidentified plant, of which dresses, etc., are made. 
To joust. Fairfax. 
A joust. Dryden. 
To run or strike against each other; to encounter; to clash; to jostle. Shak. The chariots shall rage in the streets; they shall justle one against another in the broad ways. Nahum ii. 4. 
To push; to drive; to force by running against; to jostle. We justled one another out, and disputed the post for a great while. Addison. 
An encounter or shock; a jostle. 
In a just manner; in conformity to law, justice, or propriety; by right; honestly; fairly; accurately. "In equal balance justly weighed." Shak. Nothing can justly be despised that can not justly be blamed: where there is no choice there can be no blame. South. 
The coarse, strong fiber of the East Indian Corchorus olitorius, and C. capsularis; also, the plant itself. The fiber is much used for making mats, gunny cloth, cordage, hangings, paper, etc. 
Jutlanders; one of the Low German tribes, a portion of which settled in Kent, England, in the 5th century. 
A projection in a building; also, a pier or mole; a jetty. Shak. 
To project beyond. [Obs.] Shak. 
A Brazilian name for the lofty myrtaceous tree (Bertholetia excelsa) which produces the large seeds known as Brazil nuts. 
Same as Juise. Chaucer. 
See Gimmal. 
The hartbeest. 
See Cabala. 
See Cabob, n. & v. t. 
A clay ironstone found in Ceylon. 
A Berber, as in Algiers or Tunis. See Berber. 
The jackdaw. 
The Arabian name of two trees of the genus Balsamodendron, which yield a gum resin and a red aromatic wood. 
See Coffle. 
See Caftan. 
A chantry chapel inclosed with lattice or screen work. 
A singular, crested, grallatorial bird (Rhinochetos jubatus), native of New Caledonia. It is gray above, paler beneath, and the feathers of the wings and tail are handsomely barred with brown, black, and gray. It is allied to the sun bittern. 
The colugo. 
A kind of notary public, or attorney, in the Levant. 
A long-nosed monkey (Semnopithecus nasalis), native of Borneo. The general color of the body is bright chestnut, with the under parts, shoulders, and sides of the head, golden yellow, and the top of the head and upper part of the back brown. Called also proboscis monkey. [Written also kaha.] 
A kind of headless cabbage. Same as Kale, 1. 
Poultry, etc., required by the lease to be paid in kind by a tenant to his landlord. Wharton (Law Dict.). 
Salts of potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizers. 
See Caique. 
The ancient title of emperors of Germany assumed by King William of Prussia when crowned sovereign of the new German empire in 1871. 
A New Zealand parrot of the genus Nestor, especially the brown parrot (Nestor meridionalis). 
A singular nocturnal parrot (Strigops habroptilus), native of New Zealand. It lives in holes during the day, but is active at night. It resembles an owl in its colors and general appearance. It has large wings, but can fly only a short distance. Called also owl parrot, night parrot, and night kaka. 
The sea otter. 
A variety of cabbage in which the leaves do not form a head, being nearly the original or wild form of the species. [Written also kail, and cale.] 
The last and worst of the four ages of the world; -- considered to have begun B. C. 3102, and to last 432,000 years. 
The black, destroying goddess; -- called also Doorga, Anna Purna. 
The glasswort (Salsola Kali). 
See Caliph. 
Potassium; -- so called by the German chemists. 
The name of Vishnu in his tenth and last avatar. Whitworth. 
A genus of North American shrubs with poisonous evergreen foliage and corymbs of showy flowers. Called also mountain laurel, ivy bush, lamb kill, calico bush, etc. 
A fruit bat, esp. the Indian edible fruit bat (Pteropus edulis). 
One of the Brahmanic eons, a period of 4,320,000,000 years. At the end of each Kalpa the world is annihilated. 
Crooked; awry. [Obs.] "This is clean kam." Shak. 
The Hindoo Cupid. He is represented as a beautiful youth, with a bow of sugar cane or flowers. 
The red dusty hairs of the capsules of an East Indian tree (Mallotus Philippinensis) used for dyeing silk. It is violently emetic, and is used in the treatment of tapeworm. [Written also kameela.] 
A low ridge. [Scot.] See Eschar. 
A title given to the celestial gods of the first mythical dynasty of Japan and extended to the demigods of the second dynasty, and then to the long line of spiritual princes still represented by the mikado. 
To know; to ken. [Obs.] See Ken. 
See Khan. 
Fluor spar; -- so called by Cornish miners. 
A tribe of Indians allied to the Winnebagoes and Osages. They formerly inhabited the region which is now the State of Kansas, but were removed to the Indian Territory. 
The fossil resin of the kauri tree of New Zealand. 
A silky wool derived from the seeds of Ceiba pentandra (syn. Eriodendron anfractuosum), a bombaceous tree of the East and West Indies. 
One's acts considered as fixing one's lot in the future existence. (Theos.) The doctrine of fate as the inflexible result of cause and effect; the theory of inevitable consequence. 
A pile of rocks; sometimes, the solid rock. See Cairn. 
The twenty-fourth part of a grain; -- a weight used by goldsmiths. Crabb. 
A native garment or rug of skin sewed together in the form of a square. [South Africa] 
One of the dry table-lands of South Africa, which often rise terracelike to considerable elevations. [Also karoo.] The Great Karroo, or The Karroo, a vast plateau, in Cape Colony, stretching through five degrees of longitude, at an elevation of about 3,000 feet. 
See Carvel, and Caravel. 
Same as Cossack. 
An Arabian shrub Catha edulis) the leaves of which are used as tea by the Arabs. 
The brambling finch. 
A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, or Dammara, australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind of dammar resin. [Written also kaudi, cowdie, and cowrie.] 
A species of Macropiper (M. methysticum), the long pepper, from the root of which an intoxicating beverage is made by the Polynesians, by a process of mastication; also, the beverage itself. [Written also kawa, kava, and ava.] 
An armed constable; also, a government servant or courier. [Turkey] 
See Caw. 
a New Zealand tree, the Cypress cedar (Libocedrus Doniana), having a valuable, fine-grained, reddish wood. 
A inn. [Turkey] See Khan. 
A light canoe, made of skins stretched over a frame, and usually capable of carrying but one person, who sits amidships and uses a double-bladed paddle. It is peculiar to the Eskimos and other Arctic tribes. 
The dog salmon. 
A game; ninepins. [Prov Eng.] Carew. 
A kind of toy or rude musical instrument, as a tube inside of which is a stretched string made to vibrate by singing or humming into the tube. 
A large New Zealand parrot (Nestor notabilis), notorious for having acquired the habit of killing sheep; -- called also mountain parrot. 
To heave or to retch, as in an effort to vomit. [R.] Swift. 
An effort to vomit; queasiness. [R.] 
See Keck, v. i. & n. 
To wind old rope around, as a cable, to preserve its surface from being fretted, or to wind iron chains around, to defend from the friction of a rocky bottom, or from the ice. Totten. 
The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cow parsnip or the hemlock. [Written also kex, and in pl., kecks, kaxes.] Nothing teems But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs. Shak. 
Resembling a kecksy. Grew. 
An inclosure constructed to entrap wild elephants; an elephant trap. [India] 
To move (a vessel) by carrying out a kedge in a boat, dropping it overboard, and hauling the vessel up to it. 
A small anchor used whenever a large one can be dispensed witch. See Kedge, v. t., and Anchor, n. 
A small anchor; a kedge. 
See Kie, Ky, and Kine. [Prov. Eng.] Gay. 
A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher. [Obs.] Shak. 
To cool; to akin or stir [Obs.] While greasy Joan doth keel the pot. Shak. 
A brewer's cooling vat; a keelfat. 
A longitudinal timber, or series of timbers scarfed together, extending from stem to stern along the bottom of a vessel. It is the principal timber of the vessel, and, by means of the ribs attached on each side, supports the vessel's frame. In an iron vessel, a combination of plates supplies the place of the keel of a wooden ship. See Illust. of Keelson. 
The right of demanding a duty or toll for a ship entering a port; also, the duty or toll. Bouvier. Wharton. 
Keel-shaped; having a longitudinal prominence on the back; as, a keeled leaf. 
A cooler; a vat for cooling wort, etc. [Written also keelvat.] Johnson. 
Ninepins. See Kayles. 
To sharpen; to make cold. [R.] Cold winter keens the brightening flood. Thomson. 
A prolonged wail for a deceased person. Cf. Coranach. [Ireland] Froude. 
To wail as a keener does. [Ireland] 
A professional mourner who wails at a funeral. [Ireland] 
In a keen manner. 
A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place. To take keep, to take care; to heed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The office or position of a keeper. Carew. 
See Kish. 
A vat or tub in which the mash is made; a mash tub. Ure. 
See Keeve, n. 
An effervescent liquor like kumiss, made from fermented milk, used as a food and as a medicine in the northern Caucasus. -- Ke*fir"ic (#), a. 
A small cask or barrel. 
See Kier. 
Having a kell or covering; webbed. [Obs.] Drayton. 
To cool. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A kiln. [Obs.] 
A sort of pottage; kale. See Kale, 2. Ainsworth. 
Applied to a variety of tumor forming hard, flat, irregular excrescences upon the skin. -- n. 
Any large blackish seaweed. 
See Keelson. Sir W. Raleigh. 
See Kilt, n. Jamieson. 
Cloth with the nap, generally of native black wool. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
A salmon after spawning. [Scot.] 
Same as Celt, one of Celtic race. 
Regular order or proper condition. [Written also kilter.] [Colloq.] If the organs of prayer be out of kelter or out of tune, how can we pray Barrow. 
Same as Celtic, a. & n. 
To comb. [Obs.] His longe hair was kembed behind his back. Chaucer. 
Rough; shaggy. [Obs.] "Kempe hairs." Chaucer. 
The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (Plantago Lanceolata). Dr. Prior. 
p. p. of Kemb. B. Jonson. 
A house; esp., one which is a resort for thieves. [Slang, Eng.] 
To look around. [Obs.] Burton. 
Cognizance; view; especially, reach of sight or knowledge. "Beyond his ken." Longfellow. Above the reach and ken of a mortal apprehension. South. It was relief to quit the ken And the inquiring looks of men. Trench. 
The water course of a street; a little canal or channel; a gutter; also, a puddle. Bp. Hall. 
To lie or lodge; to dwell, as a dog or a fox. The dog kenneled in a hollow tree. L'Estrange. 
To put or keep in a kennel. Thomson. 
A gambling game, a variety of the game of lotto, played with balls or knobs, numbered, and cards also numbered. [U. S.] 
A hundred weight; a quintal. 
A military cap having a close-fitting band, a round flat top sloping toward the front, and a visor. As originally worn by the French in Algeria about 1830 it was tall and stiff with a straight visor. It is now lower, has a curved visor, and is frequently soft. 
of Keep. Kept mistress, a concubine; a woman supported by a man as his paramour. 
A kind of long trumpet, used among the Persians. Moore (Encyc. of Music). 
See Curb. 
A notch, channel, or slit made in any material by cutting or sawing. 
A compound in which tar or asphaltum combined with animal or vegetable oils is vulcanized by sulphur, the product closely resembling rubber; -- used principally as an insulating material in telegraphy. Knight. 
See Carl. 
The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccus ilicis), allied to the cochineal insect, and found on several species of oak near the Mediterranean. They are round, about the size of a pea, contain coloring matter analogous to carmine, and are used in dyeing. They were anciently thought to be of a vegetable nature, and were used in medicine. [Written also chermes.] 
An idler; a vagabond. Wharton. 
A part of the face of a type which projects beyond the body, or shank. 
To form with a kern. See 2d Kern. 
A churn. [Prov. Eng.] 
A hand mill. See Quern. Johnson. 
A doll or image decorated with corn (grain) flowers, etc., carried in the festivals of a kern, or harvest-home. Called also harvest queen. 
Having part of the face projecting beyond the body or shank; -- said of type. "In Roman, f and j are the only kerned letters." MacKellar. 
To harden or ripen into kernels; to produce kernels. 
A kind of coarse, woolen cloth, usually ribbed, woven from wool of long staple. 
To carve. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A carver. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Kaiser [Obs.] Spenser. 
The stomach of a calf, prepared for rennet. Halliwell. 
To kiss. [Obs.] Chaucer 
of Cast. [Obs.] 
Carrion; any filth. [Prob. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A small salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) of inferior value, which in the autumn runs up all the larger rivers between San Francisco and Kamchatka. 
An almost obsolete form of vessel, with a mainmast and a mizzenmast, -- usually from one hundred to two hundred and fifty tons burden. Bomb ketch. See under Bomb. 
A hangman. See Jack Ketch. 
To catch. [Now obs. in spelling, and colloq. in pronunciation.] To ketch him at a vantage in his snares. Spenser. 
One of a series of organic bases obtained by the reduction of certain isonitroso compounds of the ketones. In general they are unstable oily substances having a pungent aromatic odor. 
The name of certain African species of Hibiscus, cultivated for the acid of their mucilage. [Written also ketmia.] 
One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances, represented by methyl ketol and related to indol. Methyl ketol, a weak organic base, obtained as a white crystalline substance having the odor of fæces. 
One of a large class of organic substances resembling the aldehydes, obtained by the distillation of certain salts of organic acids and consisting of carbonyl (CO) united with two hydrocarbon radicals. In general the ketones are colorless volatile liquids having a pungent ethereal odor. 
A metallic vessel, with a wide mouth, often without a cover, used for heating and boiling water or other liguids. Kettle pins, ninepins; skittles. [Obs.] Shelton. -- Kettle stitch (Bookbinding), the stitch made in sewing at the head and tail of a book. Knight. 
The upper division of the European Triassic. See Chart of Geology. 
A strong cleat to which large ropes are belayed. 
i. To cover. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A weed; a kecksy. Bp. Gauden. Though the rough kex break The starred mosaic. Tennyson. 
An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit furnished with a wing, as the fruit of the ash and maple; a samara; -- called also key fruit. 
To fasten or secure firmly; to fasten or tighten with keys or wedges. Francis. To key up. (a) (Arch.) To raise (the whole ring of an arch) off its centering, by driving in the keystone forcibly. (b) (Mus.) To raise the pitch of. (c) Hence, fig., to produce nervous tension in. 
Wharfage; quayage. 
Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to a key, as a tune. Keyed bugle. See Kent bugle. 
See Key way, under Key. 
Of a dull brownish yellow, or drab color; -- applied to cloth, originally to a stout brownish cotton cloth, used in making uniforms in the Anglo-Indian army. In the United States service the summer uniform of cotton is officially designated khaki; the winter uniform of wool, olive drab. 
Any kind of khaki cloth; hence, a uniform of khaki or, rarely, a soldier clad in khaki. In the United States and British armies khaki or cloth of a very similar color is almost exclusively used for service in the field. 
A king; a prince; a chief; a governor; -- so called among the Tartars, Turks, and Persians, and in countries now or formerly governed by them. 
An Eastern inn or caravansary. [Written also kawn.] 
A lofty West African tree (Khaya Senegalensis), related to the mahogany, which it resembles in the quality of the wood. The bark is used as a febrifuge. 
See Henna. 
The Indian jackal. 
A Dravidian of a group of tribes of Orissa, India, a section of whom were formerly noted for their cruel human sacrifices to the earth goddess, murder of female infants, and marriage by capture. 
The dziggetai. 
To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell. 
A large iron bucket used in Cornwall and Wales for raising ore out of mines. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also kibbal.] 
A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulcerated chilblain. "He galls his kibe." Shak. 
Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibed heels. Beau. & Fl. 
See Keblah. 
Affected with kibes. Skelton. 
,. [Obs.] See Kechil. Chaucer. 
To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog. He [Frederick the Great] kicked the shins of his judges. Macaulay. To kick the beam, to fit up and strike the beam; -- said of the lighter arm of a loaded balance; hence, to be found wanting in weight. Milton. -- To kick the bucket, to lose one's life; to die. [Colloq. & Low] 
A projection in a mold, to form a depression in the surface of the brick. 
One who, or that which, kicks. 
The water thrush or accentor. [Local, West Indies] 
A young goat. The . . . leopard shall lie down with the kid. Is. xi. 6 . 
To bring forth a young goat. 
A fagot; a bundle of heath and furze. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
of Kythe. [Obs.] Gower. Chaucer. 
See Kiddy, v. t. [Slang] 
of Kythe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish. [Improperly spelled kittle.] 
The guillemot. [Written also kiddaw.] [Prov. Eng.] 
To deceive; to outwit; to hoax. [Slang] Dickens. 
A young fellow; formerly, a low thief. [Slang, Eng.] 
To take (any one) by force or fear, and against one's will, with intent to carry to another place. Abbott. You may reason or expostulate with the parents, but never attempt to kidnap their children, and to make proselytes of them. Whately. 
A glandular organ which excretes urea and other waste products from the animal body; a urinary gland. 
Kine; cows. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the action of hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve. 
See Keeve, n. 
To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To kick [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A unit of work equal to one thousand ergs. 
A kiln. [Obs.] Fuller. 
A channel or arm of the sea; a river; a stream; as, the channel between Staten Island and Bergen Neck is the Kill van Kull, or the Kills; -- used also in composition; as, Schuylkill, Catskill, etc. 
A small American plover (Ægialitis vocifera). 
A voracious, toothed whale of the genus Orca, of which several species are known. 
An earth of a blackish or deep blue color. Woodward. 
To dry in a kiln; as, to kiln-dry meal or grain. Mortimer. 
An abbreviation of Kilogram. 
p. p. from Kill. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A kind of short petticoat, reaching from the waist to the knees, worn in the Highlands of Scotland by men, and in the Lowlands by young boys; a filibeg. [Written also kelt.] 
To tuck up; to truss up, as the clothes. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
See Kelter. 
Crooked; arched; bent. [Written also kimbow.] Dryden. 
A tub. See Kemelin. [Obs.] She knew not what a kimnel was Beau. & Fl. 
See Cymry. 
A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin. 
A primitive Chinese instrument of the cittern kind, with from five to twenty-five silken strings. Riemann. 
Of the same nature or kind; kinder. "Kin to the king." Shak. 
See Quinate. [Obsolescent] 
India silk brocaded with flowers in silver or gold. -- a. 
To beget. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To bring forth young. [Obs.] Shak. The poor beast had but lately kindled. Holland. 
One who, or that which, kindles, stirs up, or sets on fire."Kindlers of riot." Gay. 
Related; congenial; of the like nature or properties; as, kindred souls; kindred skies; kindred propositions. True to the kindred points of heaven and home. Wordsworth. 
Cows. "A herd of fifty or sixty kine." Milton. 
A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones or metal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood, and struck with a hammer. 
The title of two historical books in the Old Testament. 
To supply with a king; to make a king of; to raise to royalty. [R.] Shak. Those traitorous captains of Israel who kinged themselves by slaying their masters and reigning in their stead. South. 
Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristic of, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king; monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand. "Kingly magnificence." Sir P. Sidney. "A kingly government." Swift. "The kingly couch." Shak. The kingliest kings are crowned with thorn. G. Massey. Leave kingly backs to cope with kingly cares. Cowper. 
In a kingly or kinglike manner. Shak. Low bowed the rest; he, kingly, did but nod. Pore. 
See Quinic. 
A unit of force equal to the force which, acting for one second, will give a pound a velocity of one foot per second; -- proposed by J.D.Everett, an English physicist. 
To wind into a kink; to knot or twist spontaneously upon itself, as a rope or thread. 
A fit of coughing; also, a convulsive fit of laughter. [Scot.] 
Same as 3d Kink. 
Prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by the Indians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or as a substitute for it. Also, a plant so used, as the osier cornel (Cornus stolonijra), and the bearberry (Arctostaphylus Uva-ursi). [Spelled also kinnickinnick and killikinick.] 
The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously in tanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine. 
See Quinone. 
See Quinoyl. 
A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars. 
The hide of a young or small beef creature, or leather made from it; kipskin. Kip leather. See Kipskin. 
An osier basket used for catching fish. [Prov. Eng.] 
A salmon after spawning. 
To cure, by splitting, salting, and smoking. "Kippered salmon." Dickens. 
Amorous; also, lively; light-footed; nimble; gay; sprightly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A church or the church, in the various senses of the word; esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformed churches, or from the Roman Catholic Church. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
Turned upward; bent. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
A garment varying in form and use at different times, and worn doth by men and women. Wearing her Norman car, and her kirtle of blue. Longfellow. 
A workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally in iron smelting. 
Destiny; fate. [Written also kismat.] [Oriental] 
One who kisses. Beau. & Fl. 
A chest; hence, a coffin. [Scot. & Prov. End.] Jamieson. Halliwell. 
A stated payment, especially a payment of rent for land; hence, the time for such payment. [India] 
To cut. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A kitten. Kit fox (Zoöl.), a small burrowing fox (Vulpes velox), inhabiting the region of the Rocky Mountains. It is brownish gray, reddish on the breast and flanks, and white below. Called also swift fox. 
A small violin. "A dancing master's kit." Grew. Prince Turveydrop then tinkled the strings of his kit with his fingers, and the young ladies stood up to dance. Dickens. 
A game played by striking with a stick small piece of wood, called a cat, shaped like two coned united at their bases; tipcat. Cotton. Kitcat roll (Agric.), a roller somewhat in the form of two cones set base to base. [Prov. Eng.] 
Any raptorial bird of the subfamily Milvinæ, of which many species are known. They have long wings, adapted for soaring, and usually a forked tail. 
To raise money by "kites;" as, kiting transactions. See Kite, 6. [Cant] 
The belly. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
Acquaintance; kindred. And my near kith for sore me shend. W. Browne. The sage of his kith and the hamlet. Longfellow. Kith and kin, kindred more or less remote. 
See Kythe. Chaucer. 
Like or relating to a kite. 
of Kit to cut. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Kittle, v. t. 
A young cat. 
To bring forth young, as a cat; to bring forth, as kittens. Shak. H. Spencer. 
To bring forth young, as a cat; to kitten; to litter. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To tickle. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] [Written also kittel.] Halliwell. Jamieson. 
Ticklish; not easily managed; troublesome; difficult; variable. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. Sir W. Scott. 
The Chinese paper parasol. 
A large chamber built under, or in, the houses of a Pueblo village, used as an assembly room in religious rites or as a men's dormitory. It is commonly lighted and entered from an opening in the roof. 
A mash vat. See Keeve. [Obs.] 
To cover. -- n. 
See Click. 
A glen; a ravine closed at its upper end. [South Africa] 
To bite or nibble. [Obs.] Horses will knabble at walls, and rats gnaw iron. Sir T. Browne. 
Trickish; artful. [Obs.] -- Knack"ish*ness, n. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
Having a knack; cunning; crafty; trickish. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 
Full of knots; knaggy. 
Knotty; rough; figuratively, rough in temper. Fuller. -- Knag"gi*ness, n. 
A protuberance; a swelling; a knob; a button; hence, rising ground; a summit. See Knob, and Knop. The highest part and knap of the same island. Holland. 
To make a sound of snapping. Wiseman. 
A sharp blow or slap. Halliwell. 
Having knaps; full of protuberances or humps; knobby. [Obs.] Huloet. 
See Gnar. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A knot in wood. See Gnarl. 
Knotty; gnarled. Chaucer. 
Roguish or mischievous tricks. Shak. 
See Gnaw. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 
A low, spreading weed (Scleranthus annuus), common in sandy soil. 
That may be kneaded; capable of being worked into a mass. 
The twisting of a rope or cable, as it is running out. [Eng.] 
A piece of timber or metal formed with an angle somewhat in the shape of the human knee when bent. 
To supplicate by kneeling. [Obs.] Fall down, and knee The way into his mercy. Shak 
Geniculated; forming an obtuse angle at the joints, like the knee when a little bent; as, kneed grass. 
To bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimes with down. And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. Acts vii. 60. As soon as you are dressed, kneel and say the Lord's Prayer. Jer. Taylor. 
The stoke of a bell tolled at a funeral or at the death of a person; a death signal; a passing bell; hence, figuratively, a warning of, or a sound indicating, the passing away of anything. The dead man's knell Is there scarce asked for who. Shak. The curfew tolls the knell of parting day. Gray. 
To sound as a knell; especially, to toll at a death or funeral; hence, to sound as a warning or evil omen. Not worth a blessing nor a bell to knell for thee. Beau. & Fl. Yet all that poets sing, and grief hath known, Of hopes laid waste, knells in that word, "alone". Ld. Lytton. 
To summon, as by a knell. Each matin bell, the baron saith, Knells us back to a world of death. Coleridge. 
of Kneel. 
of Know. 
To prune with the knife. 
To dub or create (one) a knight; -- done in England by the sovereign only, who taps the kneeling candidate with a sword, saying: Rise, Sir ---. A soldier, by the honor-giving hand Of Cknighted in the field. Shak. 
Union knitting; texture. Shak. 
Small particles of ore. Raymond. 
of Knife. See Knife. 
See Knop. Knob latch, a latch which can be operated by turning a knob, without using a key. 
To grow into knobs or bunches; to become knobbed. [Obs.] Drant. 
A short club with a knobbed end used as a missile weapon by Kafir and other native tribes of South Africa. 
A felling by a knock, as of a combatant, or of an animal. 
A little round hill; a mound; a small elevation of earth; the top or crown of a hill. On knoll or hillock rears his crest, Lonely and huge, the giant oak. Sir W. Scott. 
To ring, as a bell; to strike a knell upon; to toll; to proclaim, or summon, by ringing. "Knolled to church." Shak. Heavy clocks knolling the drowsy hours. Tennyson. 
To sound, as a bell; to knell. Shak. For a departed being's soul The death hymn peals, and the hollow bells knoll. Byron. 
The tolling of a bell; a knell. [R.] Byron. 
Any boldly projecting sculptured ornament; esp., the ornamental termination of a pinnacle, and then synonymous with finial; -- called also knob, and knosp. Knop sedge (Bot.), the bur reed (Sparganium); - - so called from its globular clusters of seed vessels. Prior. 
See Knur. [Obs.] 
Same as Knop,2. Milman. 
See Node. 
The cloudberry (Rudus Chamæmorus); -- so called from its knotted stems. 
See Knot. 
A kind of whip for flogging criminals, formerly much used in Russia. The last is a tapering bundle of leather thongs twisted with wire and hardened, so that it mangles the flesh. 
To punish with the knout Brougham. 
Knee. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
That may be known; capable of being discovered, understood, or ascertained. Thus mind and matter, as known or knowable, are only two different series of phenomena or qualities. Sir W. Hamilton. 
One who knows. Shak. 
of Know. 
Waste silk formed in winding off the threads from a cocoon. 
A lout; a clown. [Obs.] The country knuffs, Hob, Dick, and Hick, With clubs and clouted shoon. Hayward. 
A knurl. Woodward. 
A contorted knot in wood; a crossgrained protuberance; a nodule; a boss or projection. 
To provide with ridges, to assist the grasp, as in the edge of a flat knob, or coin; to mill. 
Full of knots; hard; tough; hence, capable of enduring or resisting much. 
Full of knots. [Obs.] Drayton. 
Same as Coaita. 
A tailless marsupial (Phascolarctos cinereus), found in Australia. The female carries her young on the back of her neck. Called also Australian bear, native bear, and native sloth. 
See Cobalt. 
A kind of domestic spirit in German mythology, corresponding to the Scottish brownie and the English Robin Goodfellow. 
A kind of portable camera. 
Any one of several species of cuckoos of the genus Eudynamys, found in India, the East Indies, and Australia. They deposit their eggs in the nests of other birds. 
A two-masted Dutch vessel. 
A mixture of soot and other ingredients, used by Egyptian and other Eastern women to darken the edges of the eyelids. 
The gemsbok. 
The gnu. 
An African freshwater fish (Protopterus annectens), belonging to the Dipnoi. It can breathe air by means of its lungs, and when waters dry up, it encases itself in a nest of hard mud, where it remains till the rainy season. It is used as food. 
To know. See Can, and Con. [Obs.] Ye konnen thereon as much as any man. Chaucer. 
See Conite. 
A large African antelope (Alcelaphus Lichtensteini), allied to the hartbeest, but having shorter and flatter horns, and lacking a black patch on the face. 
A large South African antelope (Strepsiceros kudu). The males have graceful spiral horns, sometimes four feet long. The general color is reddish or grayish brown, with eight or nine white bands on each side, and a pale dorsal stripe. The old males become dark bluish gray, due to the skin showing through the hair. The females are hornless. Called also nellut. [Written also kudu.] 
See Kurd. 
Hill; mountain. [South Africa] 
A small Russian coin. One hundred kopecks make a rouble, worth about sixty cents. [Written also kopek, copec, and copeck.] 
A hillock; a small kop. [South Africa] 
The Scriptures of the Mohammedans, containing the professed revelations to Mohammed; -- called also Alcoran. [Written also Kuran or Quran.] 
The gazelle. 
Ceremonially clean, according to Jewish law; --applied to food, esp. to meat of animals slaughtered according to the requirements of Jewish law. Opposed to tref. Hence, designating a shop, store, house, etc., where such food is sold or used. 
Kosher food; also, a kosher shop. 
To prepare in conformity with the requirements of the Jewish law, as meat. 
See Cosmos. Gladstone. 
The prostration made by mandarins and others to their superiors, either as homage or worship, by knocking the forehead on the ground. There are degrees in the rite, the highest being expressed by three knockings. [China]kowtow S. W. Williams. 
To perform the kotow.kowtow 
A wild horse (Equus, or Asinus, onager) inhabiting the plants of Central Asia; -- called also gour, khur, and onager. [Written also kulan.] 
An Abyssinian rosaceous tree (Brayera anthelmintica), the flowers of which are used as a vermifuge. [Written also cusso and kosso.] 
The same as Kotow. I have salaamed and kowtowed to him. H. James. 
A long-tailed ape (Macacus cynomolgus) of India and Sumatra. It is reddish olive, spotted with black, and has a black tail. 
A very venomous snake of India (Bungarus coeruleus), allied to the cobra. Its upper parts are bluish or brownish black, often with narrow white streaks; the belly is whitish. 
A fabulous Scandinavian sea monster, often represented as resembling an island, but sometimes as resembling an immense octopus. To believe all that has been said of the sea serpent or kraken, would be credulity; to reject the possibility of their existence, would be presumption. Goldsmith. Like a kraken huge and black. Longfellow. 
The carcass of a whale after the blubber has been removed. [Written also crang and kreng.] 
See Creel. 
A variety of white lead. See Krems lead, under Lead, n. 
See Krang. 
A Malay dagger. See Creese. 
A coin of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, of the value of about twenty-eight cents. See Crown, n., 9. 
See Czar. 
The East Indian tapir. See Tapir. 
Glory; fame; renown; praise. W. H. Russel. 
To praise; to extol; to glorify. "Kudos'd egregiously." [R.] Southey. 
See Koodoo. 
See Cufic. 
The slow lemur. See Lemur. 
The name adopted in the southern part of the United States by a secret political organization, active for several years after the close of the Civil War, and having for its aim the repression of the political power of the freedmen; -- called also Kuklux Klan. 
See Koulan. 
A Russian and German liqueur, consisting of a sweetened spirit flavored with caraway seeds. 
A native or inhabitant of a mountainous region of Western Asia belonging to the Turkish and Persian monarchies. [Written also Koord.] 
See Vetiver. 
The packet of vellum leaves in which the gold is first beaten into thin sheets. 
See Catechu. 
A pack sack to be swung on either side of a packsaddle. [Western U. S.] 
Same as Cyanophyll. 
Cocoanut fiber, or the cordage made from it. See Coir. 
A daw. [Scot.] 
p. p. of Kythe. 
imp. of Kythe, to show. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To look steadfastly; to gaze. [Obs.] [Written also kike, keke.] This Nicholas sat ever gaping upright, As he had kyked on the newe moon. Chaucer. 
A variety of the boomerang. 
The cattle of the Hebrides, or of the Highlands. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
See Kimnel. [Obs.] Chapman. 
See Cymric, a. & n. 
See Cymry. 
See Kyrie eleison. 
To come into view; to appear. [Scot.] It kythes bright . . . because all is dark around it. Sir W. Scott. 
A camp, esp. one with an inclosure of travelers' wagons for temporary defense. [South Africa] 
To form into, or camp in, a laager, or protected camp. 
A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To prate; to gossip; to babble; to blab. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A telltale; a prater; a blabber. [Obs.] "I am no lab." Chaucer. 
To weaken or impair. [R.] 
A barrulet, or, rarely, a bendlet, with pendants, or points, usually three, especially used as a mark of cadency to distinguish an eldest or only son while his father is still living. 
One who labels. [Written also labeller.] 
Slipping; sliding; gliding. [R.] 
See Labium. 
Furnished with lips; as, a labial organ pipe. 
A letter or character representing an articulation or sound formed or uttered chiefly with the lips, as b, p, w. 
Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize. [Obs.] Cheyne. 
The folds of integument at the opening of the vulva. 
an East Indian name for several twining leguminous plants related to the bean, but commonly applied to the hyacinth bean (Delichos Lablab). 
The pitching or tossing of a vessel which results in the straining of timbers and rigging. 
To pitch or roll heavily, as a ship in a turbulent sea. Totten. 
A chemist. [Obs.] Boyle. 
Lips. [Obs. & R.] Shak. 
A piece of wood, shell, stone, or other substance, worn in a perforation of the lip or cheek by many savages. 
A genus of marine fishes, including the wrasses of Europe. See Wrasse. 
A resinous substance produced mainly on the banyan tree, but to some extent on other trees, by the Coccus lacca, a scale-shaped insect, the female of which fixes herself on the bark, and exudes from the margin of her body this resinous substance. 
Pertaining to lac, or produced from it; as, laccic acid. 
A yellow amorphous substance obtained from lac. 
To be fastened with a lace, or laces; as, these boots lace. 
Of or pertaining to Lacedæmon or Sparta, the chief city of Laconia in the Peloponnesus. -- n. 
A muscle of the human body. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A system of bracing bars, not crossing each other in the middle, connecting the channel bars of a compound strut. Waddell. 
Exclamation of regret or surprise. [Prov. Eng.] Cowper. 
One who lacks or is in want. 
See Lacquer. 
An attending male servant; a footman; a servile follower. Like a Christian footboy or a gentleman's lackey. Shak. Lackey caterpillar (Zoöl.), the caterpillar, or larva, of any bombycid moth of the genus Clisiocampa; -- so called from its party- colored markings. The common European species (C. neustria) is striped with blue, yellow, and red, with a white line on the back. The American species (C. Americana and C. sylvatica) are commonly called tent caterpillars. See Tent caterpillar,under Tent. -- Lackey moth (Zoöl.), the moth which produces the lackey caterpillar. 
To attend as a lackey; to wait upon. A thousand liveried angels lackey her. Milton. 
To act or serve as lackey; to pay servile attendance. 
See Litmus. 
One of a series of anhydrides of an amido type, analogous to the lactones, as oxindol. 
Of or pertaining to milk; procured from sour milk or whey; as, lactic acid; lactic fermentation, etc. Lactic acid (Physiol. Chem.), a sirupy, colorless fluid, soluble in water, with an intensely sour taste and strong acid reaction. There are at least three isomeric modifications all having the formula C3H6O3. Sarcolactic or paralactic acid occurs chiefly in dead muscle tissue, while ordinary lactic acid results from fermentation. The two acids are alike in having the same constitution (expressed by the name ethylidene lactic acid), but the latter is optically inactive, while sarcolactic acid rotates the plane of polarization to the right. The third acid, ethylene lactic acid, accompanies sarcolactic acid in the juice of flesh, and is optically inactive. -- Lactic ferment, an organized ferment (Bacterium lacticum or lactis), which produces lactic fermentation, decomposing the sugar of milk into carbonic and lactic acids, the latter, of which renders the milk sour, and precipitates the casein, thus giving rise to the so- called spontaneous coagulation of milk. -- Lactic fermentation. See under Fermentation. 
One of a series of anhydrides resembling the lactams, but of an imido type; as, isatine is a lactim. Cf. Lactam. 
See Lactose. 
An organic residue or radical derived from lactic acid. 
A small opening; a small depression or cavity; a space, as a vacant space between the cells of plants, or one of the spaces left among the tissues of the lower animals, which serve in place of vessels for the circulation of the body fluids, or the cavity or sac, usually of very small size, in a mucous membrane. 
A lacuna. [R.] Landor. 
of Lead, to guide Chaucer. 
A gum resin gathered from certain Oriental species of Cistus. It has a pungent odor and is chiefly used in making plasters, and for fumigation. [Written also labdanum.] 
of Lead, to guide. Chaucer. 
A lad; a male sweetheart. [Scot.] 
To transfer (the molten glass) from the pot to the forming table. 
To admit water by leakage, as a ship, etc. 
One who leads a pack horse; a miller's servant. [Obs. or Local] 
Loaded; freighted; burdened; as, a laden vessel; a laden heart. Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Is. i. 4. A ship laden with gold. Shak. 
Ladylike; not rough; gentle. [Obs.] "Stroked with a ladied land." Feltham. 
To make a lady of; to make ladylike. [Obs.] Massinger. 
A Romansch dialect spoken in some parts of Switzerland and the Tyrol. 
One of the half-breed descendants of whites and Indians; a mestizo; -- so called throughout Central America. They are usually of a yellowish orange tinge. Am. Cyc. 
A little lad. [R.] Dr. H. More. 
A vessel to carry liquid metal from the furnace to the mold. 
To take up and convey in a ladle; to dip with, or as with, a ladle; as, to ladle out soup; to ladle oatmeal into a kettle. 
The triturating apparatus in the stomach of a lobster; -- so called from a fancied resemblance to a seated female figure. It consists of calcareous plates. Ladies' man, a man who affects the society of ladies. -- Lady altar, an altar in a lady chapel. Shipley. -- Lady chapel, a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary. -- Lady court, the court of a lady of the manor. -- Lady crab (Zoöl.), a handsomely spotted swimming crab (Platyonichus ocellatus) very common on the sandy shores of the Atlantic coast of the United States. -- Lady fern. (Bot.) See Female fern, under Female, and Illust. of Fern. -- Lady in waiting, a lady of the queen's household, appointed to wait upon or attend the queen. -- Lady Mass, a Mass said in honor of the Virgin Mary. Shipley. Lady of the manor, a lady having jurisdiction of a manor; also, the wife of a manor lord. Lady's maid, a maidservant who dresses and waits upon a lady. Thackeray. -- Our Lady, the Virgin Mary. 
Belonging or becoming to a lady; ladylike. "Some lady trifles." Shak. 
of Leave. Chaucer. 
of Leave. Chaucer. 
See Graylag. Lag of the tide, the interval by which the time of high water falls behind the mean time, in the first and third quarters of the moon; -- opposed to priming of the tide, or the acceleration of the time of high water, in the second and fourth quarters; depending on the relative positions of the sun and moon. -- Lag screw, an iron bolt with a square head, a sharp-edged thread, and a sharp point, adapted for screwing into wood; a screw for fastening lags. 
To walk or more slowly; to stay or fall behind; to linger or loiter. "I shall not lag behind." Milton. 
To cover, as the cylinder of a steam engine, with lags. See Lag, n., 4. 
One transported for a crime. [Slang, Eng.] 
To transport for crime. [Slang, Eng.] She lags us if we poach. De Quincey. 
See Ligan. 
The terminal part of the cochlea in birds and most reptiles; an appendage of the sacculus, corresponding to the cochlea, in fishes and amphibians. 
Lager beer. 
A laggard. 
Laggingly. [Prov. Eng.] 
A morbid condition in which the eye stands wide open, giving a peculiar staring appearance. 
See Lagoon. 
A layman. Bp. Morton. 
of Lay. Laid paper, paper marked with parallel lines or water marks, as if ribbed, from parallel wires in the mold. It is called blue laid, cream laid, etc., according to its color. 
Ugly; loathsome. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] This laidly and loathsome worm. W. Howitt. 
of Lie, v. i. 
A lord; a landholder, esp. one who holds land directly of the crown. [Scot.] 
See Lamaism. [R.] 
Sap green. [China] 
A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually by precipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminium hydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc. 
A kind of fine white linen, formerly in use. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To play; to sport. [Prov. Eng.] 
A large body of water contained in a depression of the earth's surface, and supplied from the drainage of a more or less extended area. 
The water pepper (Polygonum Hydropiper), an aquatic plant of Europe and North America. 
Same as Lac, one hundred thousand. 
See Ladykin. 
See Lack. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Pertaining to a lake. Sir W. Scott. 
Transparent; -- said of blood rendered transparent by the action of some solvent agent on the red blood corpuscles. 
The powdered leaves of the baobab tree, used by the Africans to mix in their soup, as the southern negroes use powdered sassafras. Cf. Couscous. 
To beat soundly; to thrash. [Obs. or Low] Beau. & Fl. 
See Llama. 
In Thibet, Mongolia, etc., a priest or monk of the belief called Lamaism. The Grand Lama, or Dalai Lama Etym: [lit., Ocean Lama], the supreme pontiff in the lamaistic hierarchy. See Lamaism. 
Of or pertaining to Lamaism. 
The young of the sheep. 
To bring forth a lamb or lambs, as sheep. 
The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures of the skull. Lambda moth (Zoöl.), a moth so called from a mark on its wings, resembling the Greek letter lambda ( 
To make lame. If you happen to let child fall and lame it. Swift. 
See Lamella. 
An a lame, crippled, disabled, or imperfect manner; as, to walk lamely; a figure lamely drawn. 
To express or feel sorrow; to weep or wail; to mourn. Jeremiah lamented for Josiah. 2 Chron. xxxv. 25. Ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice. John xvi. 20. 
To mourn for; to bemoan; to bewail. One laughed at follies, one lamented crimes. Dryden. 
A book of the Old Testament attributed to the prophet Jeremiah, and taking its name from the nature of its contents. 
Small steel plates combined together so as to slide one upon the form a piece of armor. 
A monster capable of assuming a woman's form, who was said to devour human beings or suck their blood; a vampire; a sorceress; a with. 
The blade of a leaf; the broad, expanded portion of a petal or sepal of a flower. Gray. 
Somewhat lame. Wood. 
See Lam. 
The first day of August; -- called also Lammas day, and Lammastide. 
A thin plate or lamina. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A device or mechanism for producing light by electricity. See Incandescent lamp, under Incandescent. Æolipile lamp, a hollow ball of copper containing alcohol which is converted into vapor by a lamp beneath, so as to make a powerful blowpipe flame when the vapor is ignited. Weale. -- Arc lamp (Elec.), a form of lamp in which the voltaic arc is used as the source of light. -- Dëbereiner's lamp, an apparatus for the instantaneous production of a flame by the spontaneous ignition of a jet of hydrogen on being led over platinum sponge; -- named after the German chemist Döbereiner, who invented it. Called also philosopher's lamp. -- Flameless lamp, an aphlogistic lamp. -- Lamp burner, the part of a lamp where the wick is exposed and ignited. Knight. -- Lamp fount, a reservoir for oil, in a lamp. -- Lamp jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4 (l) & (n). -- Lamp shade, a screen, as of paper, glass, or tin, for softening or obstructing the light of a lamp. -- Lamp shell (Zoöl.), any brachiopod shell of the genus Terebratula and allied genera. The name refers to the shape, which is like that of an antique lamp. See Terebratula. -- Safety lamp, a miner's lamp in which the flame is surrounded by fine wire gauze, preventing the kindling of dangerous explosive gases; -- called also, from Sir Humphry Davy the inventor, Davy lamp. -- To smell of the lamp, to bear marks of great study and labor, as a literary composition. 
A lamp or candlestick. [R.] By him who 'mid the golden lampads went. Trench. 
An inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof of the mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- called also lampers. 
Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of a supposed acid. 
A place for storing wool. 
A small iron rod which suspends the core of the mold in casting a shell. 
A slender marine fish of the genus Ammodytes, especially Ammodytes tobianus of the English coast; -- called also sand lance. 
A set of quadrilles of a certain arrangement. [Written also lanciers.] 
An iron bar used for tapping a melting furnace. Knight. Lancet arch (Arch.), a pointed arch, of which the width, or span, is narrow compared with the height. -- Lancet architecture, a name given to a style of architecture, in which lancet arches are common; -- peculiar to England and 13th century. -- Lancet fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A large, voracious, deep-sea fish (Alepidosaurus ferox), having long, sharp, lancetlike teeth. (b) The doctor, or surgeon fish. 
To throw, as a lance; to let fly; to launch. See Whose arm can lanch the surer bolt. Dryden & Lee. 
Urine. See Lant. [Obs.] 
The ground left unplowed between furrows; any one of several portions into which a field is divided for convenience in plowing. 
To go on shore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to come to the end of a course. 
A four-wheeled covered vehicle, the top of which is divided into two sections which can be let down, or thrown back, in such a manner as to make an open carriage. [Written also landaw.] 
A person who waits at the mouth of the shaft to receive the kibble of ore. 
Alone [Scot.] His lane, by himself; himself alone. 
A passageway between fences or hedges which is not traveled as a highroad; an alley between buildings; a narrow way among trees, ras, a lane between lines of men, or through a field of ice. It is become a turn-again lane unto them which they can not go through. Tyndale. 
Long. [Obs. or Scot.] 
One of several species of East Indian and Asiatic fresh-water fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, remarkable for their power of living out of water, and for their tenacity of life; -- called also walking fishes. 
Bearing or producing wool. 
To become lank; to make lank. [Obs.] Shak. G. Fletcher. 
In a lank manner. 
Somewhat lank. Thackeray. The lanky Dinka, nearly seven feet in height. The Century. 
The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansium domesticum). It has a fleshy pulp, with an agreeable subacid taste. Balfour. 
Urine. [Prov. Eng.] Nares. 
Any one of several species of small, slender, marine fishes of the genus Ammedytes. The common European species (A. tobianus) and the American species (A. Americanus) live on sandy shores, buried in the sand, and are caught in large quantities for bait. Called also launce, and sand eel. 
See Lanterloo. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammal fetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth. 
See Lanier. 
The amount by which a slide valve at its half stroke overlaps a port in the seat, being equal to the distance the valve must move from its mid stroke position in order to begin to open the port. Used alone, lap refers to outside lap. See Outside lap (below). 
To lay together one over another, as fleeces or slivers for further working. To lap boards, shingles, etc., to lay one partly over another. -- To lap timbers, to unite them in such a way as to preserve the same breadth and depth throughout, as by scarfing. Weale. 
To be turned or folded; to lie partly upon or by the side of something, or of one another; as, the cloth laps back; the boats lap; the edges lap. The upper wings are opacous; at their hinder ends, where they lap over, transparent, like the wing of a flay. Grew. 
To take into the mouth with the tongue; to lick up with a quick motion of the tongue. They 'II take suggestion as a cat laps milk. Shak. 
A rupture or hernia in the lumbar regions. 
A small dog fondled in the lap. 
That part of a garment which is turned back; specifically, the lap, or fold, of the front of a coat in continuation of collar. [Written also lappel and lapelle.] 
As much as the lap can contain. 
A stone. Lapis calaminaris (. Etym: [NL.] (Min.) Calamine. -- Lapis infernalis (. Etym: [L.] Fused nitrate of silver; lunar caustic. 
Same as Laplander. Cf. Lapps. 
One who takes up food or liquid with his tongue. 
A small decorative fold or flap, esp, of lace or muslin, in a garment or headdress. Swift. Lappet moth (Zoöl.), one of several species of bombycid moths, which have stout, hairy caterpillars, flat beneath. Two common American species (Gastropacha Americana, and Tolype velleda) feed upon the apple tree. 
To decorate with, or as with, a lappet. [R.] Landor. 
Of or pertaining to Lapland, or the Lapps. -- n. 
A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northern parts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia. 
The termination of a right or privilege through neglect to exercise it within the limited time, or through failure of some contingency; hence, the devolution of a right or privilege. 
Liable to lapse. 
A lackey. [Obs.] Evelyn. 
A tutelary deity; a deceased ancestor regarded as a protector of the family. The domestic Lares were the tutelar deities of a house; household gods. Hence, Eng.: Hearth or dwelling house. Nor will she her dear Lar forget, Victorious by his benefit. Lovelace. The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint. Milton. Looking backward in vain toward their Lares and lands. Longfellow. 
A species of gibbon (Hylobates lar), found in Burmah. Called also white-handed gibbon. 
A genus of coniferous trees, having deciduous leaves, in fascicles (see Illust. of Fascicle). 
To grow fat. [Obs.] 
A room or place where meat and other articles of food are kept before they are cooked. Shak. 
A larder. [Obs.] 
Containing, or resembling, lard; of the character or consistency of lard. 
Lore; learning. [Obs.] 
Pasture; feed. See Lair. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To feed; to fatten. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
See 1st Lar. 
Crossing the line of a ship's course in a favorable direction; -- said of the wind when it is abeam, or between the beam and the quarter. At large. (a) Without restraint or confinement; as, to go at large; to be left at large. (b) Diffusely; fully; in the full extent; as, to discourse on a subject at large. -- Common at large. See under Common, n. -- Electors at large, Representative at large, electors, or a representative, as in Congress, chosen to represent the whole of a State, in distinction from those chosen to represent particular districts in a State. [U. S.] -- To give, go, run, or sail large (Naut.), to have the wind crossing the direction of a vessel's course in such a way that the sails feel its full force, and the vessel gains its highest speed. See Large, a., 8. 
Freely; licentiously. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A musical note, formerly in use, equal to two longs, four breves, or eight semibreves. 
A sport piece of bar iron for rolling into a sheet; a small billet. 
Slow or slowly; -- more so than adagio; next in slowness to grave, which is also weighty and solemn. -- n. 
A long, slender rope made of hemp or strips of hide, esp. one with a noose; -- used as a lasso for catching cattle, horses, etc., and for picketing a horse so that he can graze without wandering. [Mexico & Western U.S.] 
To secure with a lariat fastened to a stake, as a horse or mule for grazing; also, to lasso or catch with a lariat. [Western U.S.] 
Of or pertaining to the Gull family (Laridæ). 
A frolic; a jolly time. [Colloq.] Dickens. 
To sport; to frolic. [Colloq.] 
Any one numerous species of singing birds of the genus Alauda and allied genera (family Alaudidæ). They mostly belong to Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa. In America they are represented by the shore larks, or horned by the shore larks, or horned larks, of the genus Otocoris. The true larks have holaspidean tarsi, very long hind claws, and usually, dull, sandy brown colors. 
To catch larks; as, to go larking. 
Indian cress. 
Like or belonging to the Gull family (Laridæ). 
To beat or flog soundly. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Forby. 
Same as Lorry, or Lorrie. 
, See Alarum, and Alarm. 
Any young insect from the time that it hatches from the egg until it becomes a pupa, or chrysalis. During this time it usually molts several times, and may change its form or color each time. The larvæ of many insects are much like the adults in form and habits, but have no trace of wings, the rudimentary wings appearing only in the pupa stage. In other groups of insects the larvæ are totally unlike the parents in structure and habits, and are called caterpillars, grubs, maggots, etc. 
Of or pertaining to a larva. 
A larva. 
A guillemot; -- called also lavy. [Prov. Eng.] 
The expanded upper end of the windpipe or trachea, connected with the hyoid bone or cartilage. It contains the vocal cords, which produce the voice by their vibrations, when they are stretched and a current of air passes between them. The larynx is connected with the pharynx by an opening, the glottis, which, in mammals, is protected by a lidlike epiglottis. 
A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Less. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A native sailor, employed in European vessels; also, a menial employed about arsenals, camps, camps, etc.; a camp follower. [East Indies] 
,. v. i. To ply the whip; to strike; to uttercensure or sarcastic language. To laugh at follies, or to lash at vice. Dryden. To lash out, to strike out wildly or furiously. 
To bind with a rope, cord, thong, or chain, so as to fasten; as, to lash something to a spar; to lash a pack on a horse's back. 
One who whips or lashes. 
The act of one who, or that which, lashes; castigation; chastisement. South. Lashing out, a striking out; also, extravagance. 
A diarrhea or flux. [Obs.] Holland. 
latching. 
A youth woman; a girl; a sweetheart. 
Less. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A young girl; a lass. [Scot.] 
A rope or long thong of leather with, a running noose, used for catching horses, cattle, etc. Lasso cell (Zoöl.), one of a peculiar kind of defensive and offensive stinging cells, found in great numbers in all coelenterates, and in a few animals of other groups. They are most highly developed in the tentacles of jellyfishes, hydroids, and Actiniæ. Each of these cells is filled with, fluid, and contains a long, slender, often barbed, hollow thread coiled up within it. When the cell contracts the thread is quickly ejected, being at the same time turned inside out. The thread is able to penetrate the flesh of various small, soft-bodied animals, and carries a subtle poison by which they are speedily paralyzed and killed. The threads, at the same time, hold the prey in position, attached to the tentacles. Some of the jellyfishes, as the Portuguese man-of-war, and Cyanea, are able to penetrate the human skin, and inflict painful stings in the same way. Called also nettling cell, cnida, cnidocell. 
To catch with a lasso. 
of Last, to endure, contracted from lasteth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A wooden block shaped like the human foot, on which boots and shoes are formed. The cobbler is not to go beyond his last. L'Estrange. Darning last, a smooth, hard body, often egg-shaped, put into a stocking to preserve its shape in darning. 
To shape with a last; to fasten or fit to a last; to place smoothly on a last; as, to last a boot. 
of Last, to endure. Chaucer. 
A workman whose business it is to shape boots or shoes, or place leather smoothly, on lasts; a tool for stretching leather on a last. 
To let; to allow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To smear; to anoint. [Obs.] Shak. 
A latching. 
The string that fastens a shoe; a shoestring. 
Belated; too late. [Obs.] Shak. 
Of or pertaining to a peculiar rig used in the Mediterranean and adjacent waters, esp. on the northern coast of Africa. See below. Lateen sail. Etym: [F. voile latine a sail in the shape of a right- angled triangle; cf. It. & Sp. vela latina; properly Latin sail. See Latin.] (Naut.) A triangular sail, extended by a long yard, which is slung at about one fourth of its length from the lower end, to a low mast, this end being brought down at the tack, while the other end is elevated at an angle or about forty-five degrees; -- used in small boats, feluccas, xebecs, etc., especially in the Mediterranean and adjacent waters. Some lateen sails have also a boom on the lower side. 
Not long ago; recently; as, he has lately arrived from Italy. 
Not visible or apparent; hidden; springs of action. The evils latent in the most promising contrivances are provided for as they arise. Burke. Latent buds (bot.), buds which remain undeveloped or dormant for a long time, but may at length grow. Latent heat (Physics), that quantity of heat which disappears or becomes concealed in a body while producing some change in it other than rise of temperature, as fusion, evaporation, or expansion, the quantity being constant for each particular body and for each species of change. -- Latent period. (a) (Med.) The regular time in which a disease is supposed to be existing without manifesting itself. (b) (Physiol.) One of the phases in a simple muscular contraction, in which invisible preparatory changes are taking place in the nerve and muscle. (c) (Biol.) One of those periods or resting stages in the development of the ovum, in which development is arrested prior to renewed activity. 
A brick or tile. Knight. 
Compar. of Late, a. & adv. 
A genus of large percoid fishes, of which one species (Lates Niloticus) inhabits the Nile, and another (L. calcarifer 
A milky or colored juice in certain plants in cavities (called latex cells or latex tubes). It contains the peculiar principles of the plants, whether aromatic, bitter, or acid, and in many instances yields caoutchouc upon coagulation. 
A thin, narrow strip of wood, nailed to the rafters, studs, or floor beams of a building, for the purpose of supporting the tiles, plastering, etc. A corrugated metallic strip or plate is sometimes used. Lath brick, a long, slender brick, used in making the floor on which malt is placed in the drying kiln. Lath nail a slender nail for fastening laths. 
To cover or line with laths. 
Formerly, a part or division of a county among the Anglo- Saxons. At present it consists of four or five hundreds, and is confined to the county of Kent. [Written also lath.] Brande & C. 
A machine for turning, that is, for shaping articles of wood, metal, or other material, by causing them to revolve while acted upon by a cutting tool. 
To spread over with lather; as, to lather the face. 
To form lather, or a froth like lather; to accumulate foam from profuse sweating, as a horse. 
To beat severely with a thong, strap, or the like; to flog. [Low] 
Like a lath; long and slender. A lathy horse, all legs and length. R. Browning. 
Belonging, or relating, to Latium, a country of ancient Italy. See Latin. 
A strap for tightening a saddle girth. [Western U. S. & Sp. Amer.] 
A member of the Roman Catholic Church. (Dog Latin, barbarous Latin; a jargon in imitation of Latin; as, the log Latin of schoolboys. -- Late Latin, Low Latin, terms used indifferently to designate the latest stages of the Latin language; low Latin (and, perhaps, late Latin also), including the barbarous coinages from the French, German, and other languages into a Latin form made after the Latin had become a dead language for the people. -- Law Latin, that kind of late, or low, Latin, used in statutes and legal instruments; -- often barbarous. 
To write or speak in Latin; to turn or render into Latin. [Obs.] Fuller. 
Transportation; conveyance. [Obs.] 
Somewhat late. [Colloq.] 
The highest kind of worship, or that paid to God; -- distinguished by the Roman Catholics from dulia, or the inferior worship paid to saints. 
Belonging to present times or those recent by comparison. 
To praise in words alone, or with words and singing; to celebrate; to extol. With all the company of heaven, we laud and magnify thy glorious name. Book of Common Prayer. 
One who lauds. 
An expression of mirth peculiar to the human species; the sound heard in laughing; laughter. See Laugh, v. i. And the loud laugh that spoke the vacant mind. Goldsmith. That man is a bad man who has not within him the power of a hearty laugh. F. W. Robertson. 
A lance. [Obs.] 
A balance. [Obs.] Fortune all in equal launce doth sway. Spenser. 
See Lant, the fish. 
To move with force and swiftness like a sliding from the stocks into the water; to plunge; to make a beginning; as, to launch into the current of a stream; to launch into an argument or discussion; to launch into lavish expenditures; -- often with out. Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. Luke v. 4. He [Spenser] launches out into very flowery paths. Prior. 
The boat of the largest size belonging to a ship of war; also, an open boat of any size driven by steam, naphtha, electricity, or the like. Launching ways. (Naut.) See Way, n. (Naut.). 
A plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade. [Obs.] In a laund upon an hill of flowers. Chaucer. Through this laund anon the deer will come. Shak. 
A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhood occupied by anchorites who were under the same superior. C. Kingsley. 
An evergreen shrub, of the genus Laurus (L. nobilis), having aromatic leaves of a lanceolate shape, with clusters of small, yellowish white flowers in their axils; -- called also sweet bay. 
Laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, the European bay or laurel (Laurus nobilis). Lauric acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline substance, C12H24O2, resembling palmitic acid, and obtained from the fruit of the bay tree, and other sources. 
A white crystalline substance extracted from the fruit of the bay (Laurus nobilis), and consisting of a complex mixture of glycerin ethers of several organic acids. 
A genus of trees including, according to modern authors, only the true laurel (Laurus nobilis), and the larger L. Canariensis of Madeira and the Canary Islands. Formerly the sassafras, the camphor tree, the cinnamon tree, and several other aromatic trees and shrubs, were also referred to the genus Laurus. 
Loose. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The melted rock ejected by a volcano from its top or fissured sides. It flows out in streams sometimes miles in length. It also issues from fissures in the earth's surface, and forms beds covering many square miles, as in the Northwestern United States. 
To wash; to bathe; as, to lave a bruise. His feet the foremost breakers lave. Byron. 
To bathe; to wash one's self. In her chaste current oft the goddess laves. Pope. 
To lade, dip, or pour out. [Obs.] Dryden. 
The remainder; others. [Scot.] Bp. Hall. 
To beat against the wind; to tack. [Obs.] Dryden. 
One who laves; a washer. [Obs.] 
The fronds of certain marine algæ used as food, and for making a sauce called laver sauce. Green laver is the Ulva latissima; purlpe laver, Porphyra laciniata and P. vulgaris. It is prepared by stewing, either alone or with other vegetables, and with various condiments; - - called also sloke, or sloakan. Mountain laver (Bot.), a reddish gelatinous alga of the genus Palmella, found on the sides of mountains 
See Lavatic. 
To expend or bestow with profusion; to use with prodigality; to squander; as, to lavish money or praise. 
A laver. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Lawe, v. t. [Obs.] 
An exclamation of mild surprise. [Archaic or Low] 
To cut off the claws and balls of, as of a dog's fore feet. Wright. 
A lawyer. [Obs.] Bale. 
One who makes or enacts a law or system of laws; a legislator. 
Going to law; litigation. Holinshed. 
Expeditation. Blackstone. 
A very fine linen (or sometimes cotton) fabric with a rather open texture. Lawn is used for the sleeves of a bishop's official dress in the English Church, and, figuratively, stands for the office itself. A saint in crape is twice in lawn. Pope. 
See Laund. 
Having a lawn; characterized by a lawn or by lawns; like a lawn. Musing through the lawny park. T. Warton. 
Made of lawn or fine linen. Bp. Hall. 
Like, or becoming, a lawyer; as, lawyerlike sagacity. "Lawyerly mooting of this point." Milton. 
A looseness; diarrhea. 
The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness, strictness, or exactness. 
In a lax manner. 
of Lie, to recline. 
The laity; the common people. [Obs.] The learned have no more privilege than the lay. B. Jonson. 
A meadow. See Lea. [Obs.] Dryden. 
To state; to allege; as, to lay the venue. Bouvier. 
To take a position; to come or go; as, to lay forward; to lay aloft. 
That which is laid; a stratum; a bed; one thickness, course, or fold laid over another; as, a layer of clay or of sand in the earth; a layer of bricks, or of plaster; the layers of an onion. 
Land lying untilled; fallow ground. [Obs.] Blount. 
A whiplash. [Obs.] 
A person infected with a filthy or pestilential disease; a leper. Chaucer. Like loathsome lazars, by the hedges lay. Spenser. Lazar house a lazaretto; also, a hospital for quarantine. 
To be lazy or idle. [Colloq.] Middleton. 
To waste in sloth; to spend, as time, in idleness; as, to laze away whole days. [Colloq.] 
In a lazy manner. Locke. 
A mineral of a fine azure-blue color, usually in small rounded masses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, with some sodium sulphide, is often marked by yellow spots or veins of sulphide of iron, and is much valued for ornamental work. Called also lapis lazuli, and Armenian stone. 
A support for the back, attached to the seat of a carriage. [Colloq.] 
A meadow or sward land; a grassy field. "Plow-torn leas." Shak. The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the lea. Gray. 
See 3d Leech. 
To part with soluble constituents by percolation. 
See Leech, a physician. [Obs.] 
Permitting liquids to pass by percolation; not capable of retaining water; porous; pervious; -- said of gravelly or sandy soils, and the like. 
One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleable and ductile, though with little tenacity, and is used for tubes, sheets, bullets, etc. Its specific gravity is 11.37. It is easily fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of solder and type metal. Atomic weight, 206.4. Symbol Pb (L. Plumbum). It is chiefly obtained from the mineral galena, lead sulphide. 
To place leads between the lines of; as, to lead a page; leaded matter. 
To begin a game, round, or trick, with; as, to lead trumps; the double five was led. To lead astray, to guide in a wrong way, or into error; to seduce from truth or rectitude. -- To lead captive, to carry or bring into captivity. -- To lead the way, to show the way by going in front; to act as guide. Goldsmith. 
The act or right of playing first in a game or round; the card suit, or piece, so played; as, your partner has the lead. 
Separated by leads, as the lines of a page. 
A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc. ; also, a line of gut, to which the snell of a fly hook is attached. (i) (Mining) A branch or small vein, not important in itself, but indicating the proximity of a better one. 
Resembling lead. Sir T. Elyot. 
A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is elaborated under the influence of light; one of the parts of a plant which collectively constitute its foliage. 
To shoot out leaves; to produce leaves; to leave; as, the trees leaf in May. Sir T. Browne. 
Having (such) a leaf or (so many) leaves; -- used in composition; as, broad-leafed; four-leafed. 
A leaflet. 
An alliance or combination of two or more nations, parties, or persons, for the accomplishment of a purpose which requires a continued course of action, as for mutual defense, or for furtherance of commercial, religious, or political interests, etc. And let there be 'Twixt us and them no league, nor amity. Denham. 
To unite in a league or confederacy; to combine for mutual support; to confederate South. 
To join in a league; to cause to combine for a joint purpose; to combine; to unite; as, common interests will league heterogeneous elements. 
Leaky. [Obs.] Spenser. 
An allowance of a certain rate per cent for the leaking of casks, or waste of liquors by leaking. 
Faithful; loyal; true. All men true and leal, all women pure. Tennyson. Land of the leal, the place of the faithful; heaven. 
See Leme. [Obs.] Holland. 
A cord or strap for leading a dog. Sir W. Scott. 
A dog held by a leam. 
To conceal. [Obs.] Ray. 
To cause to lean; to incline; to support or rest. Mrs. Browning. His fainting limbs against an oak he leant. Dryden. 
Of a character which prevents the compositor from earning the usual wages; -- opposed to fat; as lean copy, matter, or type. 
Unremunerative copy or work. 
Meagerly; without fat or plumpness. 
Lean. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A fault. 
One who, or that which, leaps. 
A kind of hooked instrument for untwisting old cordage. 
To learn. See Lere, to learn. [Obs.] 
Lore; lesson. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See Leer, a. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
An annealing oven. See Leer, n. 
To acquire knowledge or skill; to make progress in acquiring knowledge or skill; to receive information or instruction; as, this child learns quickly. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. Matt. xi. 29. To learn by heart. See By heart, under Heart. -- To learn by rote, to memorize by repetition without exercise of the understanding. 
To gather what harvesters have left behind; to glean. [Obs.] Dryden. 
Held by lease. 
One who leases or gleans. [Obs.] Swift. 
A liar. [Obs.] See Leasing. 
A brace and a half; a tierce; three; three creatures of any kind, especially greyhounds, foxes, bucks, and hares; hence, the number three in general. [I] kept my chamber a leash of days. B. Jonson. Then were I wealthier than a leash of kings. Tennyson. 
To tie together, or hold, with a leash. 
A pasture. [Obs.] 
Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; most unimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space. 
In the smallest or lowest degree; in a degree below all others; as, to reward those who least deserve it. 
See Lest, conj. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Flimsy; vague; deceptive. [Obs.] Ascham. 
An artificial water trench, esp. one to or from a mill. C. Kingsley. 
To send out leaves; to leaf; -- often with out. G. Fletcher. 
To raise; to levy. [Obs.] An army strong she leaved. Spenser. 
Bearing, or having, a leaf or leaves; having folds; -- used in combination; as, a four-leaved clover; a two-leaved gate; long- leaved. 
Containing leaven. Milton. 
One who leaves, or withdraws. 
pl. of Leaf. 
Leafy. [Obs.] Chapman. 
The hartbeest. 
To lick. [Obs.] 
See water buck, under 3d Buck. 
A man given to lewdness; one addicted, in an excessive degree, to the indulgence of sexual desire, or to illicit commerce with women. 
To practice lewdness. 
A reader of lections; formerly, a person designated to read lessons to the illiterate. 
of Lead. Led captain. An obsequious follower or attendant. [Obs.] Swift. -- Led horse, a sumpter horse, or a spare horse, that is led along. 
A lode; a limited mass of rock bearing valuable mineral. 
Abounding in ledges; consisting of a ledge or reef; as, a ledgy island. 
, i, To lie; to speak falsely. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
That which settles at the bottom, as, of a cask of liquor (esp. wine); sediment; dregs; -- used now only in the plural. [Lees occurs also as a form of the singular.] "The lees of wine." Holland. A thousand demons lurk within the lee. Young. The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees Is left this vault to brag of. Shak. 
That part of the hemisphere, as one stands on shipboard, toward which the wind blows. See Lee, a. By the lee, To bring by the lee. See under By, and Bring. -- Under the lee of, on that side which is sheltered from the wind; as, to be under the lee of a ship. 
Of or pertaining to the part or side opposite to that against which the wind blows; -- opposed to weather; as, the lee side or lee rail of a vessel. Lee gauge. See Gauge, n. (Naut.) -- Lee shore, the shore on the lee side of a vessel. -- Lee tide, a tide running in the same direction that the wind blows. -- On the lee beam, directly to the leeward; in a line at right angles to the length of the vessel and to the leeward. 
See 2d Leach. 
See Leach, v. t. 
The border or edge at the side of a sail. [Written also leach.] Leech line, a line attached to the leech ropes of sails, passing up through blocks on the yards, to haul the leeches by. Totten. -- Leech rope, that part of the boltrope to which the side of a sail is sewed. 
Any one of numerous genera and species of annulose worms, belonging to the order Hirudinea, or Bdelloidea, esp. those species used in medicine, as Hirudo medicinalis of Europe, and allied species. 
The art of healing; skill of a physician. [Archaic] Chaucer. 
See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A plant of the genus Allium (A. Porrum), having broadly linear succulent leaves rising from a loose oblong cylindrical bulb. The flavor is stronger than that of the common onion. Wild leek , in America, a plant (Allium tricoccum) with a cluster of ovoid bulbs and large oblong elliptical leaves. 
See Leme. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
of Leap. leaped. 
To learn. [Obs.] See Lere, to learn. 
Empty; destitute; wanting; as: (a) Empty of contents. "A leer stomach." Gifford. (b) Destitute of a rider; and hence, led, not ridden; as, a leer horse. B. Jonson. (c) Wanting sense or seriousness; trifling; trivolous; as, leer words. 
An oven in which glassware is annealed. 
To look with a leer; to look askance with a suggestive expression, as of hatred, contempt, lust, etc. ; to cast a sidelong lustful or malign look. I will leer him as a'comes by. Shak. The priest, above his book, Leering at his neighbor's wife. Tennyson. 
To entice with a leer, or leers; as, to leer a man to ruin. Dryden. 
Tape or braid; an ornament. Halliwell. Leere side, the left side, as that on which a leere or ornament was worn. B. Jonson. 
Dregs. See 2d Lee. 
A leash. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To lose. [Obs.] They would rather leese their friend than their jest. Lord Burleigh. 
To hurt. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
of Let, to allow. Chaucer. 
A portion; a list, esp. a list of candidates for an office. [Scot.] 
A court-leet; the district within the jurisdiction of a court- leet; the day on which a court-leet is held. Shak. 
The European pollock. 
The lateral movement of a ship to the leeward of her course; drift. 
of Leave. 
Of or pertaining to that side of the body in man on which the muscular action of the limbs is usually weaker than on the other side; -- opposed to right, when used in reference to a part of the body; as, the left ear. Also said of the corresponding side of the lower animals. Left bank of a river, that which is on the left hand of a person whose face is turned downstream. -- Left bower. See under 2d Bower. -- Left center, the members whose sympathies are, in the main, with the members of the Left, but who do not favor extreme courses, and on occasions vote with the government. They sit between the Center and the extreme Left. -- Over the left shoulder, or Over the left, an old but still current colloquialism, or slang expression, used as an aside to indicate insincerity, negation, or disbelief; as, he said it, and it is true, -- over the left. 
Situated on the left; nearer the left hand than the right; as, the left-hand side; the left-hand road. Left-hand rope, rope laid up and twisted over from right to left, or against the sun; -- called also water-laid rope. 
See Leveful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The course and distance made by a vessel on one tack or between tacks. 
To use as a leg, with it as object: (a) To bow. [Obs.] (b) To run [Low] 
Governed by the rules of law as distinguished from the rules of equity; as, legal estate; legal assets. Bouvier. Burrill. Legal cap. See under Cap. -- Legal tender. (a) The act of tendering in the performance of a contract or satisfaction of a claim that which the law prescribes or permits, and at such time and place as the law prescribes or permits. (b) That currency, or money, which the law authorizes a debtor to tender and requires a creditor to receive. It differs in different countries. 
One to whom a legacy is bequeathed. 
Connected; tied; -- a term used when successive tones are to be produced in a closely connected, smoothly gliding manner. It is often indicated by a tie, thus staccato. 
To allege; to assert. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher. 
To tell or narrate, as a legend. Bp. Hall. 
Lying or remaining in a place; hence, resident; as, leger ambassador. 
Light; slender; slim; trivial. [Obs. except in special phrases.] Bacon. Leger line (Mus.), a line added above or below the staff to extend its compass; -- called also added line. 
To lay. [Obs.] 
To lighten; to allay. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
Having (such or so many) legs; -- used in composition; as, a long-legged man; a two-legged animal. 
Having long legs. Thackeray. 
A body of foot soldiers and cavalry consisting of different numbers at different periods, -- from about four thousand to about six thousand men, -- the cavalry being about one tenth. 
One skilled in the laws; a writer on law. Milman. J. Morley. 
A pod dehiscent into two pieces or valves, and having the seed attached at one suture, as that of the pea. 
See Leger, n., 2. [Obs.] Shak. 
A genus of Australian gallinaceous birds including but a single species (Leipoa ocellata), about the size of a turkey. Its color is variegated, drown, black, white, and gray. Called also native pheasant. 
A sweetheart, of either sex; a gallant, or a mistress; -- usually in a bad sense. [Archaic] Chaucer. Spenser. Shak. 
A ray or glimmer of light; a gleam. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To shine. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
A preliminary or auxiliary proposition demonstrated or accepted for immediate use in the demonstration of some other proposition, as in mathematics or logic. 
A leman. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An oval or roundish fruit resembling the orange, and containing a pulp usually intensely acid. It is produced by a tropical tree of the genus Citrus,the common fruit known in commerce being that of the species C. Limonum or C. Medica (var. Limonum). There are many varieties of the fruit, some of which are sweet. 
One of a family (Lemuridæ) of nocturnal mammals allied to the monkeys, but of small size, and having a sharp and foxlike muzzle, and large eyes. They feed upon birds, insects, and fruit, and are mostly natives of Madagascar and the neighboring islands, one genus (Galago) occurring in Africa. The slow lemur or kukang of the East Indies is Nycticebus tardigradus. See Galago, Indris, and Colugo. 
A procuress. J. Webster. 
Such as can be lent. Sherwood. 
One who lends. The borrower is servant to the lender. Prov. xxii. 7. 
See Lends. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Loins. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To lend; to grant; to permit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Longer; longest; -- obsolete compar. and superl. of long. Chaucer. 
To lengthen. [Obs.] Shak. 
To assuage; to soften; to Bacon. Dryden. 
The state or quality of being lenient; mildness of temper or disposition; gentleness of treatment; softness; tenderness; clemency; -- opposed to severity and rigor. His exceeding lenity disposes us to be somewhat too severe. Macaulay. 
A light open cotton fabric used for window curtains. 
A piece of glass, or other transparent substance, ground with two opposite regular surfaces, either both curved, or one curved and the other plane, and commonly used, either singly or combined, in optical instruments, for changing the direction of rays of light, and thus magnifying objects, or otherwise modifying vision. In practice, the curved surfaces are usually spherical, though rarely cylindrical, or of some other figure. Lenses 
imp. & p. p. of Lend. 
A fast of forty days, beginning with Ash Wednesday and continuing till Easter, observed by some Christian churches as commemorative of the fast of our Savior. 
See Lento. 
Lent. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
The season of Lenten or Lent. 
A leguminous plant of the genus Ervum (Ervum Lens), of small size, common in the fields in Europe. Also, its seed, which is used for food on the continent. 
Slow; in slow time; slowly; -- rarely written lente. 
Viscid; viscous; tenacious. Spawn of a lentous and transparent body. Sir T. Browne. 
People; a nation; a man. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Bp. Gibson. 
A lion. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One of the shooting stars which constitute the star shower that recurs near the fourteenth of November at intervals of about thirty- three years; so called because shooting stars appear on the heavens to move in lines directed from the constellation Leo. 
of Leap. Leaped. Chaucer. 
A sterile transformed stamen. 
Any one of various species of Lepas, a genus of pedunculated barnacles found attached to floating timber, bottoms of ships, Gulf weed, etc.; -- called also goose barnacle. See Barnacle. 
A person affected with leprosy. 
Pleasant; jocose. [R.] The joyous and lepid consul. Sydney Smith. 
Leprosy. 
Leprosy.[Obs.] Wyclif. 
Leprosy. [Obs.] Holland. 
The six-legged young, or larva, of certain mites; -- sometimes used as a generic name. See Harvest mite, under Harvest. 
Learning; lesson; lore. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To learn; to teach. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Empty. [Obs.] See Lere, a. 
Flesh; skin. [Obs.] "His white leer." Chaucer. 
Learned. [Obs.] " Lewed man or lered." Chaucer. 
A small European rodent (Eliomys nitela), allied to the dormouse. 
A leash. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To lose. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A hurt; an injury. Specifically: (a) (Civil Law) Loss sustained from failure to fulfill a bargain or contract. Burrill. (b) (Med.) Any morbid change in the exercise of functions or the texture of organs. Dunglison. 
Unless. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Smaller; not so large or great; not so much; shorter; inferior; as, a less quantity or number; a horse of less size or value; in less time than before. 
Not so much; in a smaller or lower degree; as, less bright or loud; less beautiful. 
To make less; to lessen. [Obs.] Gower. 
The person to whom a lease is given, or who takes an estate by lease. Blackstone. 
To make less; to reduce; to make smaller, or fewer; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; as, to lessen a kingdom, or a population; to lessen speed, rank, fortune. Charity . . . shall lessen his punishment. Calamy. St. Paul chose to magnify his office when ill men conspired to lessen it. Atterbury. 
To become less; to shrink; to contract; to decrease; to be diminished; as, the apparent magnitude of objects lessens as we recede from them; his care, or his wealth, lessened. The objection lessens much, and comes to no more than this: there was one witness of no good reputation. Atterbury. 
Less; smaller; inferior. God made . . . the lesser light to rule the night. Gen. i. 15. 
Less. [Obs.] Shak. 
The leavings or dung of beasts. 
To teach; to instruct. Shak. To rest the weary, and to soothe the sad, Doth lesson happier men, and shame at least the bad. Byron. 
One who leases; the person who lets to farm, or gives a lease. Blackstone. 
To listen. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
Lust; desire; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Last; least. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A dry sirocco in the Madeira Islands. 
To retard; to hinder; to impede; to oppose. [Archaic] He was so strong that no man might him let. Chaucer. He who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way. 2. Thess. ii. 7. Mine ancient wound is hardly whole, And lets me from the saddle. Tennyson. 
A stroke in which a ball touches the top of the net in passing over. 
Letting alone. The let-alone principle, doctrine, or policy. (Polit. Econ.) See Laissez faire. 
See Leach. 
Strong desire; passion. (Archaic.) Some people have a letch for unmasking impostors, or for avenging the wrongs of others. De Quincey. 
See Leachy. 
To let; to leave. [Obs.] 
of Lete. Chaucer. 
One of the higher alcohols of the paraffine series obtained from spermaceti as a white crystalline solid. It is so called because it occurs in the ethereal salt of lauric acid. 
Deadly; mortal; fatal. "The lethal blow." W. Richardson. -- Le"thal*ly, adv. 
Death.[Obs.] Shak. 
A river of Hades whose waters when drunk caused forgetfulness of the past. 
Lethean. [Obs.] Marston. 
To let; to hinder. See Let, to hinder. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who lets or permits; one who lets anything for hire. 
One who retards or hinders. [Archaic.] 
A single type; type, collectively; a style of type. Under these buildings . . . was the king's printing house, and that famous letter so much esteemed. Evelyn. 
To impress with letters; to mark with letters or words; as, a book gilt and lettered. 
Of or pertaining to the Letts. -- n. 
An Indo-European people, allied to the Lithuanians and Old Prussians, and inhabiting a part of the Baltic provinces of Russia. 
A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance formed in the decomposition of albuminous matter by pancreatic digestion, by the action of boiling dilute sulphuric acid, and by putrefaction. It is also found as a constituent of various tissues and organs, as the spleen, pancreas, etc., and likewise in the vegetable kingdom. Chemically it is to be considered as amido-caproic acid. (CH3)2CH.CH2.CH(NH2)-COOH. L-leucine, the natural form, is present in most proteins. 
A goddess who protected newborn infants. 
Rising or having risen from rest; -- said of cattle. See Couchant and levant, under Couchant. 
Eastern. [Obs.] Forth rush the levant and the ponent winds. Milton. 
To run away from one's debts; to decamp. [Colloq. Eng.] Thackeray. 
Dear. See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as 3d & 4th Leave. [Obs.] 
To live. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To believe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To grant; -- used esp. in exclamations or prayers followed by a dependent clause. [Obs.] God leve all be well. Chaucer. 
To attend the levee or levees of. He levees all the great. Young. 
An embankment to prevent inundation; as, the levees along the Mississippi; sometimes, the steep bank of a river. [U. S. ] 
To keep within a channel by means of levees; as, to levee a river. [U. S.] 
Of even tone; without rising or falling inflection. H. Sweet. Level line (Shipbuilding), the outline of a section which is horizontal crosswise, and parallel with the rabbet of the keel lengthwise. Level surface (Physics), an equipotential surface at right angles at every point to the lines of force. 
The art or operation of using a leveling instrument for finding a horizontal line, for ascertaining the differences of level between different points of the earth's surface included in a survey, for establishing grades, etc., as in finding the descent of a river, or locating a line of railroad. Leveling instrument. See Surveyor's level, under Level, n. -- Leveling staff, a graduated rod or staff used in connection with a leveling instrument for measuring differences of level between points. 
Lightning. [Obs.] Wild thunder dint and fiery leven. Chaucer. 
More agreeable; more pleasing. [Obs.] Chaucer. To be lever than. See Had as lief, under Had. 
Bather. [Obs.] Chaucer. For lever had I die than see his deadly face. Spenser. 
A rigid piece which is capable of turning about one point, or axis (the fulcrum), and in which are two or more other points where forces are applied; -- used for transmitting and modifying force and motion. Specif., a bar of metal, wood, or other rigid substance, used to exert a pressure, or sustain a weight, at one point of its length, by receiving a force or power at a second, and turning at a third on a fixed point called a fulcrum. It is usually named as the first of the six mechanical powers, and is three kinds, according as either the fulcrum F, the weight W, or the power P. respectively, is situated between the other two, as in the figures. 
A trumpet call for rousing soldiers; a reveille. [Obs.] Hudibras. 
One who levees. Cartwright. 
Lightning. [Obs.] Spenser. Levin brand, a thunderbolt. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A husband's brother; -- used in reference to levirate marriages. 
One of the tribe or family of Levi; a descendant of Levi; esp., one subordinate to the priests (who were of the same tribe) and employed in various duties connected with the tabernacle first, and afterward the temple, such as the care of the building, bringing of wood and other necessaries for the sacrifices, the music of the services, etc. 
A prefix from L. laevus, meaning: (a) Pertaining to, or toward, the left; as, levorotatory. (b) (Chem. & Opt.) Turning the plane of polarized light to the left; as, levotartaric acid; levoracemic acid; levogyratory crystals, etc. [Written also lævo-.] 
A name formerly given in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia to the Spanish real of one eight of a dollar (or 12 
The taking or seizure of property on executions to satisfy judgments, or on warrants for the collection of taxes; a collecting by execution. Levy in mass Etym: [F. levée en masse], a requisition of all able-bodied men for military service. 
To seize property, real or personal, or subject it to the operation of an execution; to make a levy; as, to levy on property; the usual mode of levying, in England, is by seizing the goods. To levy on goods and chattels, to take into custody or seize specific property in satisfaction of a writ. 
Lukewarm; tepid. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
A lewd person. [Obs.] Shak. 
Law; as, lex talionis, the law of retaliation; lex terræ, the law of the land; lex fori, the law of the forum or court; lex loci, the law of the place; lex mercatoria, the law or custom of merchants. 
, & i. To lay; to wager. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Law. Abbott. 
See Lye. 
Grass or meadow land; a lea. 
Fallow; unseeded. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
Leisure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Quality of being liable; liability. 
Union by league; alliance. [Obs.] 
A person who knowingly utters falsehood; one who lies. 
Gray. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A French copper coin of one fourth the value of a sou. 
The lowest of the three divisions of the Jurassic period; a name given in England and Europe to a series of marine limestones underlying the Oölite. See the Chart of Geology. 
To castrate. [Obs.] 
Sipping; touching lightly. [R.] Landor. 
A malicious publication expressed either in print or in writing, or by pictures, effigies, or other signs, tending to expose another to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule. Such publication is indictable at common law. 
To proceed against by filing a libel, particularly against a ship or goods. 
To spread defamation, written or printed; -- with against. [Obs.] What's this but libeling against the senate Shak. [He] libels now 'gainst each great man. Donne. 
The inner bark of plants, lying next to the wood. It usually contains a large proportion of woody, fibrous cells, and is, therefore, the part from which the fiber of the plant is obtained, as that of hemp, etc. Liber cells, elongated woody cells found in the liber. 
Of a pound weight. [Obs.] Johnson. 
Of or pertaining to Libya, the ancient name of that part of Africa between Egypt and the Atlantic Ocean, or of Africa as a whole. 
pl. of Louse. 
Like. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
A dead body; a corpse. [Obs.] Lich fowl (Zoöl.), the European goatsucker; -- called also lich owl. -- Lich gate, a covered gate through which the corpse was carried to the church or burial place, and where the bier was placed to await clergyman; a corpse gate. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. -- Lich wake, the wake, or watching, held over a corpse before burial. [Prov Eng.] Chaucer. -- Lich wall, the wall of a churchyard or burying ground. -- Lich way, the path by which the dead are carried to the grave. [Prov. Eng.] 
One of a class of cellular, flowerless plants, (technically called Lichenes), having no distinction of leaf and stem, usually of scaly, expanded, frond-like forms, but sometimes erect or pendulous and variously branched. They derive their nourishment from the air, and generate by means of spores. The species are very widely distributed, and form irregular spots or patches, usually of a greenish or yellowish color, upon rocks, trees, and various bodies, to which they adhere with great tenacity. They are often improperly called rock moss or tree moss. 
See Litchi. 
Lawful. "Licit establishments." Carlyle. -- Lic"it*ly, adv. -- Lic"it*ness, n. 
To strike with repeated blows for punishment; to flog; to whip or conquer, as in a pugilistic encounter. [Colloq. or Low] Carlyle. Thackeray. 
A slap; a quick stroke.[Colloq.] "A lick across the face." Dryden. 
One who, or that which, licks. Licker in (Carding Machine), the drum, or cylinder, by which the lap is taken from the feed rollers. 
Liquor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An officer who bore an ax and fasces or rods, as ensigns of his office. His duty was to attend the chief magistrates when they appeared in public, to clear the way, and cause due respect to be paid to them, also to apprehend and punish criminals. Lictors and rods, the ensigns of their power. Milton. 
Covered with a lid. Keats. 
Same Ledge.[Obs.] Spenser. 
See Lye. 
To utter falsehood with an intention to deceive; to say or do that which is intended to deceive another, when he a right to know the truth, or when morality requires a just representation. 
To be sustainable; to be capable of being maintained. "An appeal lies in this case." Parsons. 
The position or way in which anything lies; the lay, as of land or country. J. H. Newman. He surveyed with his own eyes . . . the lie of the country on the side towards Thrace. Jowett (Thucyd.). 
A lay; a German song. It differs from the French chanson, and the Italian canzone, all three being national. The German Lied is perhaps the most faithful reflection of the national sentiment. Grove. 
Same as Lif. 
Pleasing; agreeable; acceptable; preferable. [Obs.] See Lief, adv., and Had as lief, under Had. Full lief me were this counsel for to hide. Chaucer. Death me liefer were than such despite. Spenser. 
A dear one; a sweetheart. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Gladly; willingly; freely; -- now used only in the phrases, had as lief, and would as lief; as, I had, or would, as lief go as not. All women liefest would Be sovereign of man's love. Gower. I had as lief the town crier spoke my lines. Shak. Far liefer by his dear hand had I die. Tennyson. 
Full; perfect; complete; pure. Burrill. Liege homage (Feudal Custom), that homage of one sovereign or prince to another which acknowledged an obligation of fealty and services. -- Liege poustie Etym: [L. legitima potestas] (Scots Law), perfect, i. e., legal, power; specif., having health requisite to do legal acts. -- Liege widowhood, perfect, i. e., pure, widowhood. [Obs.] 
Same as Liege, n., 2. Chaucer. Spenser. 
A resident ambassador. [Obs.] See Leger. Denham. 
of Lie. See lain. Ps. lxviii. 13. 
A legal claim; a charge upon real or personal property for the satisfaction of some debt or duty; a right in one to control or hold and retain the property of another until some claim of the former is paid or satisfied. 
Of or pertaining to the spleen; splenic. 
One who lies down; one who rests or remains, as in concealment. There were liers in a ambush against him. Josh. viii. 14. 
Place; room; stead; -- used only in the phrase in lieu of, that is, instead of. The plan of extortion had been adopted in lieu of the scheme of confiscation. Burke. 
Same as Lief. 
The fiber by which the petioles of the date palm are bound together, from which various kinds of cordage are made. 
The potential principle, or force, by which the organs of animals and plants are started and continued in the performance of their several and coöperative functions; the vital force, whether regarded as physical or spiritual. 
In a lifelike manner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To enliven. [Obs.] Marston. 
The sky; the atmosphere; the firmament. [Obs. or Scot.] 
To steal; to carry off by theft (esp. cattle); as, to lift a drove of cattle. 
To live by theft. Spenser. 
A rope leading from the masthead to the extremity of a yard below; -- used for raising or supporting the end of the yard. 
A tool for lifting loose sand from the mold; also, a contrivance attached to a cope, to hold the sand together when the cope is lifted. 
To recline; to lie still. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
Goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that they may be found again. See Jetsam and Flotsam. [Written also lagan.] Blackstone. 
To tie with a ligature; to bind around; to bandage. 
To lie; to tell lies. [Obs.] 
To lie or recline. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The manner in which the light strikes upon a picture; that part of a picture which represents those objects upon which the light is supposed to fall; the more illuminated part of a landscape or other scene; -- opposed to shade. Cf. Chiaroscuro. 
Lightly; cheaply. Hooker. 
To lighten; to ease of a burden; to take off. [Obs.] From his head the heavy burgonet did light. Spenser. 
Such as can be lighted. 
of Light, to alight. Chaucer. 
The lungs of an animal or bird; -- sometimes coarsely applied to the lungs of a human being. 
Illuminated. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
A substance characterizing wood cells and differing from cellulose in its conduct with certain chemical reagents. 
Same as Ligan. Brande & C. 
See Ligule. 
A band of white matter in the wall of fourth ventricle of the brain. 
A kind of precious stone. The third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst. Ex. xxviii. 19. 
See Likable. 
In all probability; probably. While man was innocent he was likely ignorant of nothing that imported him to know. Glanvill. 
See Lickerish, Lickerishness. Chaucer. 
A Chinese provincial tax levied at many inland stations upon imports or articles in transit. 
Looking; appearing; as, better or worse liking. See Like, to look. [Obs.] Chaucer. Why should he see your faces worse liking than the children which are of your sort Dan. i. 10. 
A shrub of the genus Syringa. There are six species, natives of Europe and Asia. Syringa vulgaris, the common lilac, and S. Persica, the Persian lilac, are frequently cultivated for the fragrance and beauty of their purplish or white flowers. In the British colonies various other shrubs have this name. 
Having a general resemblance to lilies or to liliaceous plants. 
Covered with, or having many, lilies. By sandy Ladon's lilied banks. Milton. 
To loll. [Obs. or Prov.] Spenser. 
To utter with spirit, animation, or gayety; to sing with spirit and liveliness. A classic lecture, rich in sentiment, With scraps of thundrous epic lilted out By violet-hooded doctors. Tennyson. 
A plant and flower of the genus Lilium, endogenous bulbous plants, having a regular perianth of six colored pieces, six stamens, and a superior three-celled ovary. 
A limb. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The capital city of Peru, in South America. Lima bean. (Bot.) (a) A variety of climbing or pole bean (Phaseolus lunatus), which has very large flattish seeds. (b) The seed of this plant, much used for food. -- Lima wood (Bot.), the beautiful dark wood of the South American tree Cæsalpinia echinata. 
The deposit of slime at the mouth of a river; slime. 
A genus of airbreathing mollusks, including the common garden slugs. They have a small rudimentary shell. The breathing pore is on the right side of the neck. Several species are troublesome in gardens. See Slug. 
A border or edge, in certain special uses. (a) (Bot.) The border or upper spreading part of a monopetalous corolla, or of a petal, or sepal; blade. (b) (Astron.) The border or edge of the disk of a heavenly body, especially of the sun and moon. (c) The graduated margin of an arc or circle, in an instrument for measuring angles. 
A cooling periodical wind in the Isle of Cyprus, blowing from the northwest from eight o'clock, A. M., to the middle of the day or later. 
An alembic; a still. [Obs.] Spenser. Shak. 
To distill. [Obs.] Dryden. 
Having limbs; -- much used in composition; as, large-limbed; short-limbed. Innumerous living creatures, perfect forms, Limbed and full grown. Milton. 
The shafts or thills of a wagon or carriage. [Prov. Eng.] 
To attach to the limber; as, to limber a gun. To limber up, to change a gun carriage into a four-wheeled vehicle by attaching the limber. 
Easily bent; flexible; pliant; yielding. Milton. The bargeman that doth row with long and limber oar. Turbervile. 
To cause to become limber; to make flexible or pliant. Richardson. 
A thong by which a dog is led; a leash. Halliwell. 
The linden tree. See Linden. 
A fruit allied to the lemon, but much smaller; also, the tree which bears it. There are two kinds; Citrus Medica, var. acida which is intensely sour, and the sweet lime (C. Medica, var. Limetta) which is only slightly sour. 
Oxide of calcium; the white or gray, caustic substance, usually called quicklime, obtained by calcining limestone or shells, the heat driving off carbon dioxide and leaving lime. It develops great heat when treated with water, forming slacked lime, and is an essential ingredient of cement, plastering, mortar, etc.CaO 
A dog used in hunting the wild boar; a leamer. Spenser. 
A limehound; a limmer. Chaucer. 
A determining feature; a distinguishing characteristic a differentia. 
To apply a limit to, or set a limit for; to terminate, circumscribe, or restrict, by a limit or limits; as, to limit the acreage of a crop; to limit the issue of paper money; to limit one's ambitions or aspirations; to limit the meaning of a word. Limiting parallels (Astron.), those parallels of latitude between which only an occultation of a star or planet by the moon, in a given case, can occur. 
To beg, or to exercise functions, within a certain limited region; as, a limiting friar. [Obs.] 
Limber. [Obs.] Holland. 
A mongrel, as a cross between the mastiff and hound. 
A genus of fresh-water air-breathing mollusks, abundant in ponds and streams; -- called also pond snail. [Written also Lymnæa.] 
A painter; an artist; esp.: (a) One who paints portraits. (b) One who illuminates books. [Archaic] 
Muddy; slimy; thick. Sir T. Browne. 
To halt; to walk lamely. Also used figuratively. Shak. 
A halt; the act of limping. 
A scraper for removing poor ore or refuse from the sieve. 
One who limps. 
Characterized by clearness or transparency; clear; as, a limpid stream. Springs which were clear, fresh, and limpid. Woodward. 
A limpet. [Obs.] Holland. 
The Hawaiian name for seaweeds. Over sixty kinds are used as food, and have species names, as Limu Lipoa, Limu palawai, etc. 
A limulus. 
To yield; to stop; to cease. [Obs. or Scot.] Marsion. 
See Lineage. [Obs.] Holland. 
A ledge; a right-angled projection. 
An esculent swallow. 
The linden. See Linden. Chaucer. 
A peculiar genus of rotifers, remarkable for the absence of ciliated disks. By some zoölogists it is thought to be like the ancestral form of the Arthropoda. 
A verse, or the words which form a certain number of feet, according to the measure. In the preceding line Ulysses speaks of Nausicaa. Broome. 
Descent in a line from a common progenitor; progeny; race; descending line of offspring or ascending line of parentage. Both the lineage and the certain sire From which I sprung, from me are hidden yet. Spenser. 
The quality of being linea 
Like a line; narrow; of the same breadth throughout, except at the extremities; as, a linear leaf. Linear differential (Math.), an equation which is of the first degree, when the expression which is equated to zero is regarded as a function of the dependent variable and its differential coefficients. -- Linear equation (Math.), an equation of the first degree between two variables; -- so called because every such equation may be considered as representing a right line. -- Linear measure, the measurement of length. -- Linear numbers (Math.), such numbers as have relation to length only: such is a number which represents one side of a plane figure. If the plane figure is square, the linear figure is called a root. -- Linear problem (Geom.), a problem which may be solved geometrically by the use of right lines alone. -- Linear transformation (Alg.), a change of variables where each variable is replaced by a function of the first degree in the new variable. 
Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking. 
A dealer in linen; a linen draper. [Obs.] 
A thin piece placed between two parts to hold or adjust them, fill a space, etc., ; a shim. 
Heather (Calluna vulgaris). Ling honey, a sort of wild honey, made from the flowers of the heather. Holland. 
A linctus. [Obs.] Fuller. 
To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow or reluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be in suspense; to hesitate. Nor cast one longing, lingering look behind. Gray. Perhaps thou linger'st, in deep thoughts detained. Milton. 
One who lingers. Guardian. 
An ingot. [Written also lingot.] 
See Lingel. 
Language; speech; dialect. [Slang] 
A linget or ingot; also, a mold for casting metals. See Linget. 
Given to the use of the tongue; loquacious. [Obs.] 
A torch made of tow and pitch, or the like. Shak. 
Any one of the several elementary pieces of a mechanism, as the fixed frame, or a rod, wheel, mass of confined liquid, etc., by which relative motion of other parts is produced and constrained. 
To connect or unite with a link or as with a link; to join; to attach; to unite; to couple. All the tribes and nations that composed it [the Roman Empire] were linked together, not only by the same laws and the same government, but by all the facilities of commodious intercourse, and of frequent communication. Eustace. 
To be connected. No one generation could link with the other. Burke. 
A tract of ground laid out for the game of golf; a golfing green. 
Flax. See Linen. [Obs.] 
Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species (L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage, is chestnut brown above, with the breast more or less crimson. The feathers of its head are grayish brown, tipped with crimson. Called also gray linnet, red linnet, rose linnet, brown linnet, lintie, lintwhite, gorse thatcher, linnet finch, and greater redpoll. The American redpoll linnet (Acanthis linaria) often has the crown and throat rosy. See Redpoll, and Twite. Green linnet (Zoöl.), the European green finch. 
Linsey-woolsey. 
A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying the superincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswise fracture. 
A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linum usitatissimum). 
A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found in Southern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varieties occurring in the different countries. The adult male, in most varieties, has a thick mane of long shaggy hair that adds to his apparent size, which is less than that of the largest tigers. The length, however, is sometimes eleven feet to the base of the tail. The color is a tawny yellow or yellowish brown; the mane is darker, and the terminal tuft of the tail is black. In one variety, called the maneless lion, the male has only a slight mane. 
The whelp of a lioness; a young lion. 
A young or small lion. 
Like a lion; fierce. [Obs.] Milton. 
One of the edges of the aperture of a univalve shell. Lip bit, a pod auger. See Auger. -- Lip comfort, comfort that is given with words only. -- Lip comforter, one who comforts with words only. -- Lip labor, unfelt or insincere speech; hypocrisy. Bale. -- Lip reading, the catching of the words or meaning of one speaking by watching the motion of his lips without hearing his voice. Carpenter. -- Lip salve, a salve for sore lips. -- Lip service, expression by the lips of obedience and devotion without the performance of acts suitable to such sentiments. -- Lip wisdom, wise talk without practice, or unsupported by experience. -- Lip work. (a) Talk. (b) Kissing. [Humorous] B. Jonson. -- Lip make a lip, to drop the under lip in sullenness or contempt. Shak. -- To shoot out the lip (Script.), to show contempt by protruding the lip. 
To clip; to trim. [Obs.] Holland. 
A tribe of North American Inedians, inhabiting the northern part of Mexico. They belong to the Tinneh stock, and are closely related to the Apaches. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, fat. The word was formerly used specifically to designate a supposed acid obtained by the oxidation of oleic acid, tallow, wax, etc. 
A little lip. 
A tumor consisting of fat or adipose tissue. -- Li*pom"a*tous, a. 
Labiate. 
To lisp. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A hypothetical radical of glycerin. [Obs.] Berzelius. 
Being in such a state that the component parts move among themselves, but do not tend to separate from each other as the particles of gases and vapors do; neither solid nor aëriform; as, liquid mercury, in distinction from mercury solidified or in a state of vapor. 
A letter which has a smooth, flowing sound, or which flows smoothly after a mute; as, l and r, in bla, bra. M and n also are called liquids. Liquid measure, a measure, or system of measuring, for liquids, by the gallon, quart, pint, gill, etc. 
A solution of a medicinal substance in water; -- distinguished from tincture and aqua. 
See Licorice. 
An Italian coin equivalent in value to the French franc. 
A sweet, light-colored species of wine, produced in the province of Estremadura, and so called as being shipped from Lisbon, in Portugal. 
A city of France celebrated for certain manufactures. Lisle glove, a fine summer glove, made of Lisle thread. -- Lisle lace, a fine handmade lace, made at Lisle. -- Lisle thread, a hard twisted cotton thread, originally produced at Lisle. 
A cavity or hollow.[Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 
The habit or act of lisping. See Lisp, v. i., 1. I overheard her answer, with a very pretty lisp, "O! Strephon, you are a dangerous creature." Tatler. 
One who lisps. 
Release; remission; ease; relief. [Obs.] "Of penance had a lisse." Chaucer. 
To free, as from care or pain; to relieve. [Obs.] "Lissed of his care." Chaucer. 
A line inclosing or forming the extremity of a piece of ground, or field of combat; hence, in the plural (lists), the ground or field inclosed for a race or combat. Chaucer. In measured lists to toss the weighty lance. Pope. To enter the lists, to accept a challenge, or engage in contest. 
To inclose for combat; as, to list a field. 
To hearken; to attend; to listen. [Obs. except in poetry.] Stand close, and list to him. Shak. 
To listen or hearken to. Then weigh what loss your honor may sustain, If with too credent ear you list his songs. Shak. 
To lean; to incline; as, the ship lists to port. 
An inclination to one side; as, the ship has a list to starboard. 
A little square molding; a fillet; -- called also listel. 
To cut away a narrow strip, as of sapwood, from the edge of; as, to list a board. To list a stock (Stock Exchange), to put it in the list of stocks called at the meeting of the board. 
To engage in public service by enrolling one's name; to enlist. 
Same as List, n., 6. 
To attend to. [Obs.] Shak. 
One who makes a list or roll. 
Same as Leister. 
, a form of the imp. & p. p. of Light. 
A solemn form of supplication in the public worship of various churches, in which the clergy and congregation join, the former leading and the latter responding in alternate sentences. It is usually of a penitential character. Supplications . . . for the appeasing of God's wrath were of the Greek church termed litanies, and rogations of the Latin. Hooker. 
The fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi). It is nutlike, having a rough but tender shell, containing an aromatic pulp, and a single large seed. In the dried fruit which is exported the pulp somewhat resembles a raisin in color and form. [Written also lichi, and lychee.] -- lite. See -lith. 
Little. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Lie, to recline, for lieth. Chaucer. 
A joint or limb; a division; a member; a part formed by growth, and articulated to, or symmetrical with, other parts. Chaucer. 
To listen or listen to; to hearken to. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 
To smooth; to soften; to palliate. [Obs.] 
Bad; wicked; false; worthless; slothful. [Obs.] Chaucer. Not lither in business, fervent in spirit. Bp. Woolton. 
The oxide of lithium; a strong alkaline caustic similar to potash and soda, but weaker. See Lithium. Lithia emerald. See Hiddenite. 
Pertaining to the formation of uric-acid concretions (stone) in the bladder and other parts of the body; as, lithic diathesis. LIthic acid (Old Med. Chem.), uric acid. See Uric acid, under Uric. 
A medicine which tends to prevent stone in the bladder. 
Pertaining to or denoting lithium or some of its compounds. Frankland. 
A combining form from Gr. stone. 
Easily bent; pliable. Lithy tree (Bot.), a European shrub (Viburnum Lantana); -- so named from its tough and flexible stem. 
A dyestuff extracted from certain lichens (Roccella tinctoria, Lecanora tartarea, etc.), as a blue amorphous mass which consists of a compound of the alkaline carbonates with certain coloring matters related to orcin and orcein. 
Same as Liter. 
One who occupies himself with literature; a literary man; a literatus. " Befriended by one kind-hearted littérateur after another." C. Kingsley. 
In a small quantity or degree; not much; slightly; somewhat; -- often with a preceding it. " The poor sleep little." Otway. 
A spiral whose polar equation is r2th = a; that is, a curve the square of whose radius vector varies inversely as the angle which the radius vector makes with a given line. 
Imparting power; having motion; as, the live spindle of a lathe. Live birth, the condition of being born in such a state that acts of life are manifested after the extrusion of the whole body. Dunglison. -- Live box, a cell for holding living objects under microscopical examination. P. H. Gosse. -- Live feathers, feathers which have been plucked from the living bird, and are therefore stronger and more elastic. -- Live gang. (Sawing) See under Gang. -- Live grass (Bot.), a grass of the genus Eragrostis. -- Live load (Engin.), a suddenly applied load; a varying load; a moving load; as a moving train of cars on a bridge, or wind pressure on a roof. Live oak (Bot.), a species of oak (Quercus virens), growing in the Southern States, of great durability, and highly esteemed for ship timber. In California the Q. chrysolepis and some other species are also called live oaks. -- Live ring (Engin.), a circular train of rollers upon which a swing bridge, or turntable, rests, and which travels around a circular track when the bridge or table turns. -- Live steam , steam direct from the boiler, used for any purpose, in distinction from exhaust steam. -- Live stock, horses, cattle, and other domestic animals kept on a farm. whole body. 
Life. [Obs.] Chaucer. On live, in life; alive. [Obs.] See Alive. Chaucer. 
Having life; -- used only in composition; as, long-lived; short-lived. 
A very large glandular and vascular organ in the visceral cavity of all vertebrates. 
The glossy ibis (Ibis falcinellus); -- said to have given its name to the city of Liverpool. 
To clothe in, or as in, livery. Shak. 
pl. of Life. 
Alive; living; with life. [Obs.] " Any lives creature." Chaucer. 
Black and blue; grayish blue; of a lead color; discolored, as flesh by contusion. Cowper. There followed no carbuncles, no purple or livid spots, the mass of the blood not being tainted. Bacon. 
In a living state. Sir T. Browne. 
Malignity. [P.] Burton. 
A French money of account, afterward a silver coin equal to 20 sous. It is not now in use, having been superseded by the franc. 
2d pers. sing. pres. of Lige, to lie, to tell lies, -- contracted for ligest. Chaucer. 
The American white mullet (Mugil curema). 
Any one of the numerous species of reptiles belonging to the order Lacertilia; sometimes, also applied to reptiles of other orders, as the Hatteria. 
A South American ruminant (Auchenia llama), allied to the camels, but much smaller and without a hump. It is supposed to be a domesticated variety of the guanaco. It was formerly much used as a beast of burden in the Andes. 
An extensive plain with or without vegetation. [Spanish America] 
Any one of several small, fresh-water, cyprinoid fishes of the genera Cobitis, Nemachilus, and allied genera, having six or more barbules around the mouth. They are found in Europe and Asia. The common European species (N. barbatulus) is used as a food fish. 
The work done by a steam engine or other prime mover when working. Load line, or Load water line (Naut.), the line on the outside of a vessel indicating the depth to which it sinks in the water when loaded. 
One who, or that which, loads; a mechanical contrivance for loading, as a gun. 
Any thick lump, mass, or cake; especially, a large regularly shaped or molded mass, as of bread, sugar, or cake. Bacon. Loaf sugar, refined sugar that has been formed into a conical loaf in a mold. 
To spend time in idleness; to lounge or loiter about. " Loafing vagabonds." W. Black. 
To spend in idleness; -- with away; as, to loaf time away. 
One who loafs; a lazy lounger. Lowell. 
A mixture of sand, clay, and other materials, used in making molds for large castings, often without a pattern. Loam mold (Founding), a mold made with loam. See Loam, n., 2. -- Loam molding, the process or business of making loam molds. Loam plate, an iron plate upon which a section of a loam mold rests, or from which it is suspended. -- Loam work, loam molding or loam molds. 
To cover, smear, or fill with loam. 
Consisting of loam; partaking of the nature of loam; resembling loam. Bacon. 
A loanin. [Scot.] 
To lend; -- sometimes with out. Kent. By way of location or loaning them out. J. Langley (1644). 
To feel disgust or nausea. [Obs.] 
Loathsome. [Obs.] Spenser. 
pl. of Loaf. 
To let fall heavily or lazily. And their poor jades Lob down their heads. Shak. To lob a ball (Lawn Tennis), to strike a ball so as to send it up into the air. 
See Cob, v. t. 
The European pollock. 
Of or pertaining to a lobe; characterized by, or like, a lobe or lobes. 
A passage or hall of communication, especially when large enough to serve also as a waiting room. It differs from an antechamber in that a lobby communicates between several rooms, an antechamber to one only; but this distinction is not carefully preserved. 
To address or solicit members of a legislative body in the lobby or elsewhere, with the purpose to influence their votes.[U.S.] Bartlett. 
To urge the adoption or passage of by soliciting members of a legislative body; as, to lobby a bill. [U.S.] 
Any projection or division, especially one of a somewhat rounded form; as: (a) (Bot.) A rounded projection or division of a leaf. Gray. (b)(Zoöl.) 
Having lobes; lobate. 
An order of Rhizopoda, in which the pseudopodia are thick and irregular in form, as in the Amoeba. 
A small lobe; a subdivision of a lobe. Lobule of the ear. (Anat.) Same as Lobe of the ear. 
Of or pertaining to a particular place, or to a definite region or portion of space; restricted to one place or region; as, a local custom. Gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name. Shak. Local actions (Law), actions such as must be brought in a particular county, where the cause arises; -- distinguished from transitory actions. -- Local affection (Med.), a disease or ailment confined to a particular part or organ, and not directly affecting the system. -- Local attraction (Magnetism), an attraction near a compass, causing its needle to deviate from its proper direction, especially on shipboard. -- Local battery (Teleg.), the battery which actuates the recording instruments of a telegraphic station, as distinguished from the battery furnishing a current for the line. -- Local circuit (Teleg.), the circuit of the local battery. -- Local color. (a) (Paint.) The color which belongs to an object, and is not caused by accidental influences, as of reflection, shadow, etc. (b) (Literature) Peculiarities of the place and its inhabitants where the scene of an action or story is laid. -- Local option, the right or obligation of determining by popular vote within certain districts, as in each county, city, or town, whether the sale of alcoholic beverages within the district shall be allowed. 
A train which receives and deposits passengers or freight along the line of the road; a train for the accommodation of a certain district. [U.S.] 
The perceptive faculty concerned with the ability to remember the relative positions of places. 
To place one's self; to take up one's residence; to settle. [Colloq.] 
A lake; a bay or arm of the sea. [Scot.] 
A kind of medicine to be taken by licking with the tongue; a lambative; a lincture. 
A small lake; a pond. [Scot.] A pond or lochan rather than a lake. H. Miller. 
See Loach. 
The discharge from the womb and vagina which follows childbirth. 
A tuft of hair; a flock or small quantity of wool, hay, or other like substance; a tress or ringlet of hair. These gray locks, the pursuivants of death. Shak. 
To furnish with locks; also, to raise or lower (a boat) in a lock. 
To become fast, as by means of a lock or by interlacing; as, the door locks close. When it locked none might through it pass. Spenser. To lock into, to fit or slide into; as, they lock into each other. Boyle. 
of Lock. Chaucer. 
The globeflower (Trollius). 
. A hospital for the treatment of venereal diseases. [Eng.] 
A place where persons under arrest are temporarily locked up; a watchhouse. 
Having locks or tufts. [R.] Sherwood. 
A direction in written or printed music to return to the proper pitch after having played an octave higher. 
A plant (Astragalus Hornii) growing in the Southwestern United States, which is said to poison horses and cattle, first making them insane. The name is also given vaguely to several other species of the same genus. Called also loco weed. 
A little hollow; a loculus. 
The line traced by a point which varies its position according to some determinate law; the surface described by a point or line that moves according to a given law. Plane locus, a locus that is a straight line, or a circle. -- Solid locus, a locus that is one of the conic sections. 
Any one of numerous species of long-winged, migratory, orthopterous insects, of the family Acrididæ, allied to the grasshoppers; esp., (Edipoda, or Pachytylus, migratoria, and Acridium perigrinum, of Southern Europe, Asia, and Africa. In the United States the related species with similar habits are usually called grasshoppers. See Grasshopper. 
The capelin. 
A metallic vein; any regular vein or course, whether metallic or not. 
The space at the mouth of a level next the shaft, widened to permit wagons to pass, or ore to be deposited for hoisting; -- called also platt. Raymond. 
Lying down; -- used of beasts of the chase, as couchant is of beasts of prey. 
One who, or that which, lodges; one who occupies a hired room in another's house. 
A quaternary deposit, usually consisting of a fine yellowish earth, on the banks of the Rhine and other large rivers. 
To laugh. [Obs.] Shak. 
That which is lifted up; an elevation. Hence, especially: (a) The room or space under a roof and above the ceiling of the uppermost story. (b) A gallery or raised apartment in a church, hall, etc.; as, an organ loft. (c) A floor or room placed above another; a story. Eutychus . . . fell down from the third loft. Acts xx. 9. On loft, aloft; on high. Cf. Onloft. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Lofty; proud. [R. & Obs.] Surrey. 
An iron club used in lofting the ball; -- called also lofting iron. 
A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing 2.37 gills. W. H. Ward. 
An apparatus for measuring the rate of a ship's motion through the water. 
, To enter in a ship's log book; as, to log the miles run. J. F. Cooper. 
A rocking or balanced stone. Gwill. 
A lodge; a habitation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Logan. 
An old game in England, played by throwing pieces of wood at a stake set in the ground. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Lodge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Made slow and heavy in movement; water-logged. Beaconsfield. 
One engaged in logging. See Log, v. i. [U.S.] Lowell. 
A roofed open gallery. It differs from a veranda in being more architectural, and in forming more decidedly a part of the main edifice to which it is attached; from a porch, in being intended not for entrance but for an out-of-door sitting-room. 
Logicalness. 
See Logic. 
A man who carries logs. Shak. 
An accountant; under Constantine, an officer of the empire; a receiver of revenue; an administrator of a department. 
Heavy or dull in respect to motion or thought; as, a logy horse. [U.S.] Porcupines are . . . logy, sluggish creatures. C. H. Merriam. 
See Loch, a medicine. 
Of or pertaining to the plague or contagious disorders. 
That part of a human being or quadruped, which extends on either side of the spinal column between the hip bone and the false ribs. In human beings the loins are also called the reins. See Illust. of Beef. 
A large European dormouse (Myoxus glis). 
In a loitering manner. 
A green vegetable dye imported from China. 
A private path or road; also, the wicket or hatch of a door. [Prov. Eng.] 
A genus of cephalopods, including numerous species of squids, common on the coasts of America and Europe. They are much used for fish bait. 
To let hang from the mouth, as the tongue. Fierce tigers couched around and lolled their fawning tongues. Dryden. 
In a lolling manner. Buckle. 
To move heavily; to lounge or idle; to loll. [Law.] Charles Reade. 
A lobe; a membranous fringe or flap. 
An elongated pod, consisting, like the legume, of two valves, but divided transversely into small cells, each containing a single seed. 
Land. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The capital city of England. London paste (Med.), a paste made of caustic soda and unslacked lime; -- used as a caustic to destroy tumors and other morbid enlargements. -- London pride. (Bot.) (a) A garden name for Saxifraga umbrosa, a hardy perennial herbaceous plant, a native of high lands in Great Britain. (b) A name anciently given to the Sweet William. Dr. Prior. -- London rocket (Bot.), a cruciferous plant (Sisymbrium Irio) which sprung up in London abundantly on the ruins of the great fire of 1667. 
A lane. See Loanin. [Prov. Eng.] 
Solitude; seclusion. [Obs.] Donne. 
Prolonged, or relatively more prolonged, in utterance; -- said of vowels and syllables. See Short, a., 13, and Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 22, 30. 
A note formerly used in music, one half the length of a large, twice that of a breve. 
By means of; by the fault of; because of. [Obs.] See Along of, under 3d Along. 
A pulpy fruit related to the litchi, and produced by an evergreen East Indian tree (Nephelium Longan). 
Same as 4th Lunge. 
One who longs for anything. 
The sparingly fossiliferous conglomerates, grits, schists, and states of Great Britain, which lie at the base of the Cambrian system; -- so called, because typically developed in the Longmynd Hills, Shropshire. 
To beat in the game of loo by winning every trick. [Written also lu.] Goldsmith. 
The clay or slimes washed from tin ore in dressing. 
An awkward, clumsy fellow; a lubber. Swift. 
See 2d Loch. 
The spongelike fibers of the fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Luffa Ægyptiaca); called also vegetable sponge. 
See Luff. 
See Moonfish (b). 
One who looks. Looker-on, a spectator; one that looks on, but has no agency or part in an affair. Did not this fatal war affront thy coast, Yet sattest thou an idle looker-on Fairfax. 
A vessel used to receive the washings of ores of metals. 
See Loon, the bird. 
That part of an oar which is near the grip or handle and inboard from the rowlock. Totten. 
The state of looming; esp., an unnatural and indistinct appearance of elevation or enlargement of anything, as of land or of a ship, seen by one at sea. 
A sorry fellow; a worthless person; a rogue. 
Any one of several aquatic, wed-footed, northern birds of the genus Urinator (formerly Colymbus), noted for their expertness in diving and swimming under water. The common loon, or great northern diver (Urinator imber, or Colymbus torquatus), and the red-throated loon or diver (U. septentrionalis), are the best known species. See Diver. 
See Luny. 
A mass of iron in a pasty condition gathered into a ball for the tilt hammer or rolls. [Written also loup.] 
A wire forming part of a main circuit and returning to the point from which it starts. 
To make a loop of or in; to fasten with a loop or loops; -- often with up; as, to loop a string; to loop up a curtain. 
The larva of any species of geometrid moths. See Geometrid. 
Deceitful; cunning; sly. [Scot.] 
A dull, stupid fellow; a drone. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Praise; fame; reputation. [Obs.] Spenser. Good conscience and good loos. Chaucer. 
To set sail. [Obs.] Acts xiii. 13. 
To become loose; to become less tight, firm, or compact. S. Sharp. 
To plunder; to carry off as plunder or a prize lawfully obtained by war. Looting parties . . . ransacking the houses. L.O 
A plunderer. 
See Louver. 
A flea.[Obs.] Cleveland. 
That which is lopped from anything, as branches from a tree. Shak. Mortimer. 
To hang downward; to be pendent; to lean to one side. 
To let hang down; as, to lop the head. 
Hanging down; as, lop ears; -- used also in compound adjectives; as, lopeared; lopsided. 
of Leap. [Obs.] And, laughing, lope into a tree. Spenser. 
Having ears which lop or hang down. 
A swivel at one end of a ropewalk, used in laying the strands. 
One who lops or cuts off. 
To turn sour and coagulate from too long standing, as milk. 
Somewhat lop; inclined to lop. 
The fruit of the Japanese medlar (Photinia Japonica). It is as large as a small plum, but grows in clusters, and contains four or five large seeds. Also, the tree itself. 
Of or pertaining to the lores. 
Having the form of a thong or strap; ligulate. 
A kind of light vessel used on the coast of China, having the hull built on a European model, and the rigging like that of a Chinese junk. Admiral Foote. 
A hump-backed person; -- so called sportively. [Eng.] Richardson (Dict.). 
One of whom a fee or estate is held; the male owner of feudal land; as, the lord of the soil; the lord of the manor. 
To play the lord; to domineer; to rule with arbitrary or despotic sway; -- sometimes with over; and sometimes with it in the manner of a transitive verb. The whiles she lordeth in licentious bliss. Spenser. I see them lording it in London streets. Shak. And lorded over them whom now they serve. Milton. 
In a lordly manner. 
Lost. Neither of them she found where she them lore. Spenser. 
Of or pertaining to the lore; -- said of certain feathers of birds, scales of reptiles, etc. 
A good for nothing fellow; a vagabond. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
of Lose. Chaucer. 
Same as Lory. 
A cuirass, originally of leather, afterward of plates of metal or horn sewed on linen or the like. 
Instructive discourse. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The golden oriole of Europe. See Oriole. 
Any one of several species of small lemurs of the genus Stenops. They have long, slender limbs and large eyes, and are arboreal in their habits. The slender loris (S. gracilis), of Ceylon, in one of the best known species. [Written also lori.] 
A small cart or wagon, as those used on the tramways in mines to carry coal or rubbish; also, a barrow or truck for shifting baggage, as at railway stations. 
Any one of many species of small parrots of the family Trichoglossidæ, generally having the tongue papillose at the tip, and the mandibles straighter and less toothed than in common parrots. They are found in the East Indies, Australia, New Guinea, and the adjacent islands. They feed mostly on soft fruits and on the honey of flowers. 
Praise. See Loos. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To suffer loss, disadvantage, or defeat; to be worse off, esp. as the result of any kind of contest. We 'll . . . hear poor rogues Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too, Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out. Shak. 
One who loses by sloth or neglect; a worthless person; a lorel. [Archaic] Spenser. One sad losel soils a name for aye. Byron. 
Wasteful; slothful. 
One who loses. South. 
Given to flattery or deceit; flattering; cozening. [Obs.] Amongst the many simoniacal that swarmed in the land, Herbert, Bishop of Thetford, must not be forgotten; nick-named Losing, that is, the Fratterer. Fuller. 
Causing or incurring loss; as, a losing game or business. Who strive sit out losing hands are lost. Herbert. 
Killed, wounded, and captured persons, or captured property. 
To allot; to sort; to portion. [R.] To lot on or upon, to count or reckon upon; to expect with pleasure. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A large tree (Celtis australis), found in the south of Europe. It has a hard wood, and bears a cherrylike fruit. Called also nettle tree. Eng. Cyc. 
The European burbot. 
To lurk; to lie hid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Lotto. 
An East Indian monkey (Semnopithecus femoralis). 
See Lotus. 
A game of chance, played with cards, on which are inscribed numbers, and any contrivance (as a wheel containing numbered balls) for determining a set of numbers by chance. The player holding a card having on it the set of numbers drawn from the wheel takes the stakes after a certain percentage of them has been deducted for the dealer. A variety of lotto is called keno. [Often written loto.] 
See Lotion. [Obs.] Holland. 
An ornament much used in Egyptian architecture, generally asserted to have been suggested by the Egyptian water lily. 
With loudness; loudly. To speak loud in public assemblies. Addison. 
In a loud manner. Denham. 
A loch or lake; -- so spelt in Ireland. 
of Laugh. Chaucer. 
An accomplice; a "pal." [Obs.] There is no thief without a louk. Chaucer. 
To spend time lazily, whether lolling or idly sauntering; to pass time indolently; to stand, sit, or recline, in an indolent manner. We lounge over the sciences, dawdle through literature, yawn over politics. J. Hannay. 
One who lounges; ar idler. 
See 1st Loop. 
The Pawnees, a tribe of North American Indians whose principal totem was the wolf. 
An Asiatic sardine (Clupea Neohowii), valued for its oil. 
See Lory. 
To clean from lice. "You sat and loused him." Swift. 
To bend; to box; to stoop. [Archaic] Chaucer. Longfellow. He fair the knight saluted, louting low. Spenser. 
A clownish, awkward fellow; a bumpkin. Sir P. Sidney. 
To treat as a lout or fool; to neglect; to disappoint. [Obs.] Shak. 
A crested black monkey (Semnopithecus maurus) of Java. 
An umbelliferous plant (Levisticum officinale), sometimes used in medicine as an aromatic stimulant. 
A climbing species of Clematis (C. Vitalba). 
To have the feeling of love; to be in love. 
One who is loved. [Humorous] "The lover and lovee." Richardson. 
In a manner to please, or to excite love. [Obs. or R.] Tyndale. 
See Louver. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
A large ornamental drinking vessel having two or more handles, intended to pass from hand to hand, as at a banquet. 
A lover. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
, strong imp. of Laugh. Chaucer. 
To make the calling sound of cows and other bovine animals; to moo. The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the lea. Gray. 
The calling sound ordinarily made by cows and other bovine animals. Talking voices and the law of herds. Wordsworth. 
A hill; a mound; a grave. [Obs. except in place names.] Skeat. 
Fire; a flame; a light. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 
To burn; to blaze. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Burns. 
Depressed in the scale of sounds; grave; as, a low pitch; a low note. 
The lowest trump, usually the deuce; the lowest trump dealt or drawn. 
In a path near the equator, so that the declination is small, or near the horizon, so that the altitude is small; -- said of the heavenly bodies with reference to the diurnal revolution; as, the moon runs low, that is, is comparatively near the horizon when on or near the meridian. 
To depress; to lower. [Obs.] Swift. 
A chest of drawers not more than four feet high; -- applied commonly to the lower half of a tallboy from which the upper half has been removed. [U. S.] 
Compar. of Low, a. 
To fall; to sink; to grow less; to diminish; to decrease; as, the river lowered as rapidly as it rose. 
Pertaining to, or kept in, the lower case; -- used to denote the small letters, in distinction from capitals and small capitals. See the Note under 1st Case, n., 3. 
Cloudy; gloomy; lowering; as, a lowery sky; lowery weather. 
The calling sound made by cows and other bovine animals. 
Somewhat low. [Colloq.] Richardson. 
See Louk. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Inclined in mind to low or unworthy things; showing a base mind. Low-minded and immoral. Macaulay. All old religious jealousies were condemned as low-minded infirmities. Bancroft. 
A low fellow. [Obs.] 
An open box car used on railroads. Compare Lorry. 
A long, narrow spade for stony lands. 
A person who adheres to his sovereign or to the lawful authority; especially, one who maintains his allegiance to his prince or government, and defends his cause in times of revolt or revolution. 
A heavy, clumsy, or awkward fellow; a sturdy drone; a clown. Lingering lubbers lose many a penny. Tusser. Land lubber, a name given in contempt by sailors to a person who lives on land. -- Lubber grasshopper (Zoöl.), a large, stout, clumsy grasshopper; esp., Brachystola magna, from the Rocky Mountain plains, and Romalea microptera, which is injurious to orange trees in Florida. -- Lubber's hole (Naut.), a hole in the floor of the "top," next the mast, through which sailors may go aloft without going over the rim by the futtock shrouds. It is considered by seamen as only fit to be used by lubbers. Totten. -- Lubber's line, point, or mark, a line or point in the compass case indicating the head of the ship, and consequently the course which the ship is steering. 
A pike when full grown. Halliwell. 
Shining; bright; resplendent. " The sun's lucent orb." Milton. 
A leguminous plant (Medicago sativa), having bluish purple cloverlike flowers, cultivated for fodder; -- called also alfalfa. [Written also lucerne.] 
A lamp. [Obs.] Lydgate. 
The quality or state of being lucid. 
That which happens to a person; an event, good or ill, affecting one's interests or happiness, and which is deemed casual; a course or series of such events regarded as occurring by chance; chance; hap; fate; fortune; often, one's habitual or characteristic fortune; as, good, bad, ill, or hard luck. Luck is often used for good luck; as, luck is better than skill. If thou dost play with him at any game, Thou art sure to lose; and of that natural luck, He beats thee 'gainst the odds. Shak. Luck penny, a small sum given back for luck to one who pays money. [Prov. Eng.] -- To be is luck, to receive some good, or to meet with some success, in an unexpected manner, or as the result of circumstances beyond one's control; to be fortunate. 
See Fatherlasher. 
Gain in money or goods; profit; riches; -- often in an ill sense. The lust of lucre and the dread of death. Pope. 
A spot or fleck on the sun brighter than the surrounding surface. 
An American genus of sapotaceous trees bearing sweet and edible fruits. 
Disease, especially of a contagious kind. Lues venerea, syphilis; -- called also simply lues. 
To turn the head of a vessel toward the wind; to sail nearer the wind; to turn the tiller so as to make the vessel sail nearer the wind. To luff round, or To luff alee, to make the extreme of this movement, for the purpose of throwing the ship's head into the wind. 
See Louver. 
A projecting piece to which anything, as a rod, is attached, or against which anything, as a wedge or key, bears, or through which a bolt passes, etc. 
To pull with force; to haul; to drag along; to carry with difficulty, as something heavy or cumbersome. Dryden. They must divide the image among them, and so lug off every one his share. Collier. 
To move slowly and heavily. 
That which is lugged; anything cumbrous and heavy to be carried; especially, a traveler's trunks, baggage, etc., or their contents. I am gathering up my luggage, and preparing for my journey. Swift. What do you mean, To dote thus on such luggage! Shak. 
A small vessel having two or three masts, and a running bowsprit, and carrying lugsails. See Illustration in Appendix. Totten. 
An Indian falcon (Falco jugger), similar to the European lanner and the American prairie falcon. 
Moderately warm; not hot; tepid. -- Luke"ness, n. [Obs.] Nine penn'orth o'brandy and water luke. Dickens. 
To cause to rest by soothing influences; to compose; to calm; to soothe; to quiet. " To lull him soft asleep." Spenser. Such sweet compulsion doth in music lie, To lull the daughters of necessity. Milton. 
To become gradually calm; to subside; to cease or abate for a time; as, the storm lulls. 
One who, or that which, lulls. 
A grayish brown limestone, containing fossil shells, which reflect a beautiful play of colors. It is also called fire marble, from its fiery reflections. 
To make a sound as if moving heavily or clumsily; to rumble. Cowper. 
Luminous. [R.] 
To illumine. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A fat, ungainly, stupid person; an awkward bungler. [Law.] 
A projection beneath the breech end of a gun barrel. In the lump, In a lump, the whole together; in gross. They may buy them in the lump. Addison. -- Lump coal, coal in large lumps; -- the largest size brought from the mine. -- Lump sum, a gross sum without a specification of items; as, to award a lump sum in satisfaction of all claims and damages. 
The European eelpout; -- called also lumpen. 
A large, thick, clumsy, marine fish (Cyclopterus lumpus) of Europe and America. The color is usually translucent sea green, sometimes purplish. It has a dorsal row of spiny tubercles, and three rows on each side, but has no scales. The ventral fins unite and form a ventral sucker for adhesion to stones and seaweeds. Called also lumpsucker, cock-paddle, sea owl. 
Full of lumps, or small compact masses. 
Silver. Luna cornea (Old Chem.), horn silver, or fused silver chloride, a tough, brown, translucent mass; -- so called from its resemblance to horn. Luna moth (Zoöl.), a very large and beautiful American moth (Actias luna). Its wings are delicate light green, with a stripe of purple along the front edge of the anterior wings, the other margins being edged with pale yellow. Each wing has a lunate spot surrounded by rings of light yellow, blue, and black. The caterpillar commonly feeds on the hickory, sassafras, and maple. 
A lunar distance. 
Lunar. [Obs.] Fuller. 
Crescent-shaped; as, a lunate leaf; a lunate beak; a lunated cross. Gray. 
A luncheon; specifically, a light repast between breakfast and dinner. 
To take luncheon. Smart. 
A figure in the form of a crescent, bounded by two intersecting arcs of circles. 
A little moon or satellite. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
An organ for aërial respiration; -- commonly in the plural. My lungs began to crow like chanticleer. Shak. 
A sudden thrust or pass, as with a sword. 
To make a lunge. 
To cause to go round in a ring, as a horse, while holding his halter. Thackeray. 
Same as Namaycush. 
Having lungs, or breathing organs similar to lungs. 
A guillemot. [Written also longie.] [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
A lingerer; a dull, drowsy fellow. [Obs.] 
Same as Lunule. 
Anything crescent-shaped; a crescent-shaped part or mark; a lunula, a lune. 
Crazy; mentally unsound. [Written also loony.] [Law, U.S.] 
A leguminous plant of the genus Lupinus, especially L. albus, the seeds of which have been used for food from ancient times. The common species of the Eastern United States is L. perennis. There are many species in California. 
Wolfish; ravenous. Gauden. 
A cutaneous disease occurring under two distinct forms. 
To swallow or eat greedily; to devour; hence, to swallow up. [Obs.] Too far off from great cities, which may hinder business; too near them, which lurcheth all provisions, and maketh everything dear. Bacon. 
A sudden roll of a ship to one side, as in heavy weather; hence, a swaying or staggering movement to one side, as that by a drunken man. Fig.: A sudden and capricious inclination of the mind. 
To roll or sway suddenly to one side, as a ship or a drunken man. 
One of a mongrel breed of dogs said to have been a cross between the sheep dog, greyhound, and spaniel. It hunts game silently, by scent, and is often used by poachers. 
Stupid; blockish. [Obs.] 
A blockhead. [Obs.] 
A velvet smoothing brush. Knight. 
To draw to the lure; hence, to allure or invite by means of anything that promises pleasure or advantage; to entice; to attract. I am not lured with love. Piers Plowman. And various science lures the learned eye. Gay. 
To recall a hawk or other animal. 
A large marine annelid (Nephthys cæca), inhabiting the sandy shores of Europe and America. It is whitish, with a pearly luster, and grows to the length of eight or ten inches. 
Having a brown color tonged with red, as of flame seen through smoke. 
A confused heap; a throng, as of persons; a jumble, as of sounds. [Obs.] To turn prayer into a kind of lurry. Milton. 
A lynx. See 1st Lucern and Loup-cervier. 
Full of juice or succulence. Tennyson. How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green! Shak. 
Lazy; slothful. [Obs.] 
A lazy fellow; a lubber. [Obs.] T. Kendall. 
To be idle or unemployed. [Obs.] 
One who lusts. 
Lusty; vigorous. [Obs.] 
Same as Luster. 
Sport or freak of nature; a deformed or unnatural production. 
A cement of clay or other tenacious infusible substance for sealing joints in apparatus, or the mouths of vessels or tubes, or for coating the bodies of retorts, etc., when exposed to heat; -- called also luting. 
To close or seal with lute; as, to lute on the cover of a crucible; to lute a joint. 
A stringed instrument formerly much in use. It consists of four parts, namely, the table or front, the body, having nine or ten ribs or "sides," arranged like the divisions of a melon, the neck, which has nine or ten frets or divisions, and the head, or cross, in which the screws for tuning are inserted. The strings are struck with the right hand, and with the left the stops are pressed. 
To sound, as a lute. Piers Plowman. Keats. 
To play on a lute, or as on a lute. Knaves are men That lute and flute fantastic tenderness. Tennyson. 
A substance of a strongly marked yellow color, extracted from the yelk of eggs, and from the tissue of the corpus luteum. 
One who plays on a lute. 
One who applies lute. 
The leatherback. 
See Lute, a cement. 
One who plays on a lute. 
Covered with clay; miry. 
See Paradoxure. 
To put out of joint; to luxate. [Obs.] 
Luxated. [Obs.] 
To displace, or remove from its proper place, as a joint; to put out of joint; to dislocate. 
Luxury. [Obs.] Shenstone. Édition de luxe (. Etym: [F.] (Printing) A sumptuous edition as regards paper, illustrations, binding, etc. 
Given to luxury; voluptuous. [Obs.] 
A bone of the human body which was supposed by certain Rabbinical writers to be indestructible. Its location was a matter of dispute. Brande & C. 
A leash. [Obs.] 
A French lyceum, or secondary school supported by the French government, for preparing students for the university. 
Like. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Litchi. 
A weak base identical with betaine; -- so called because found in the boxthorn (Lycium barbarum). See Betaine. 
See Leden. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to Lydia, a country of Asia Minor, or to its inhabitants; hence, soft; effeminate; -- said especially of one of the ancient Greek modes or keys, the music in which was of a soft, pathetic, or voluptuous character. Softly sweet in Lydian measures, Soon he soothed his soul to pleasures. Dryden. Lydian stone, a flint slate used by the ancients to try gold and silver; a touchstone. See Basanite. 
A violet dye derived from aniline. 
A strong caustic alkaline solution of potassium salts, obtained by leaching wood ashes. It is much used in making soap, etc. 
A short side line, connected with the main line; a turn-out; a siding. [Eng.] 
A falsehood. [Obs.] See Lie. 
of Lie, to tell a falsehood. 
of Lie, to be supported horizontally. Lying panel (Arch.), a panel in which the grain of the wood is horizontal. [R.] -- Lying to (Naut.), having the sails so disposed as to counteract each other. 
To please; -- chiefly used impersonally. [Obs.] " Sith it lyketh you." Chaucer. 
See Limaille. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An alkaline colorless fluid, contained in the lymphatic vessels, coagulable like blood, but free from red blood corpuscles. It is absorbed from the various tissues and organs of the body, and is finally discharged by the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts into the great veins near the heart. 
Containing, or like, lymph. 
A waterfall. See Lin. [Scot.] 
To inflict punishment upon, especially death, without the forms of law, as when a mob captures and hangs a suspected person. See Lynch law. 
Linen. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Any one of several species of feline animals of the genus Felis, and subgenus Lynx. They have a short tail, and usually a pencil of hair on the tip of the ears. 
A northern constellation, the Harp, containing a white star of the first magnitude, called Alpha Lyræ, or Vega. 
Same as Lyrid. 
A stringed instrument of music; a kind of harp much used by the ancients, as an accompaniment to poetry. 
The words of a song. 
One of the group of shooting stars which come into the air in certain years on or about the 19th of April; -- so called because the apparent path among the stars the stars if produced back wards crosses the constellation Lyra. 
A European fish (Peristethus cataphractum), having the body covered with bony plates, and having three spines projecting in front of the nose; -- called also noble, pluck, pogge, sea poacher, and armed bullhead. 
The act of playing on a lyre or harp. G. Eliot. 
A musician who plays on the harp or lyre; a composer of lyrical poetry. Shelley. 
The resolution or favorable termination of a disease, coming on gradually and not marked by abrupt change. 
Hydrophobia. 
The European pollack; -- called also laith, and leet. [Scot.] 
Soft; flexible. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A fibrous and muscular band lying within the longitudinal axis of the tongue in many mammals, as the dog. 
The common European gull (Larus canus); -- called also mar. See New, a gull. 
Made.  Chaucer. 
Madam; my lady; -- a colloquial contraction of madam often used in direct address, and sometimes as an appellation. 
An East Indian coin, of about one tenth of the weight of a rupee. 
Dejected; sorrowful; downcast. [Obs.] "So piteous and so maat." Chaucer. 
To wrap up. [Obs.] 
A spirituous liquor or drink distilled from potatoes; -- used in the Barbadoes. 
A kind of persimmon tree (Diospyros discolor) from the Philippine Islands, now introduced into the East and West Indies. It bears an edible fruit as large as a quince. 
A prefix, in names of Scotch origin, signifying son. 
Any one of several species of lemurs, as the ruffed lemur (Lemur macaco), and the ring-tailed lemur (L. catta). 
A macaw. 
Any parrot of the genus Sittace, or Macrocercus. About eighteen species are known, all of them American. They are large and have a very long tail, a strong hooked bill, and a naked space around the eyes. The voice is harsh, and the colors are brilliant and strongly contrasted. 
A gambling game in vogue in the eighteenth century. Thackeray. 
A money of account in China equal to one tenth of a tael; also, a weight of 57.98 grains. S. W. Williams. 
A kind of spice; the aril which partly covers nutmegs. See Nutmeg. 
A rod for playing billiards, having one end suited to resting on the table and pushed with one hand. Mace bearer, an officer who carries a mace before person in authority. 
A mace bearer; an officer of a court. P. Plowman. 
The striped mullet of California (Mugil cephalus, or Mexicanus). 
Same Macule. 
To blur, or be blurred, in printing, as if there were a double impression. 
A genus of spiral gastropod shells, often of large size, characteristic of the lower Silurian rocks. 
A short, straight, horizontal mark [-], placed over vowels to denote that they are to be pronounced with a long sound; as, a, in dame; e, in seam, etc. 
Any marine bivalve shell of the genus Mactra, and allied genera. Many species are known. Some of them are used as food, as Mactra stultorum, of Europe. See Surf clam, under Surf. 
A rather large spot or blotch of color. 
A blur, or an appearance of a double impression, as when the paper slips a little; a mackle. 
To blur; especially (Print.), to blur or double an impression from type. See Mackle. 
of Made. Chaucer. 
To make mad or furious; to madden. Had I but seen thy picture in this plight, It would have madded me. Shak. 
To be mad; to go mad; to rave. See Madding. [Archaic] Chaucer. Festus said with great voice, Paul thou maddest. Wyclif (Acts). 
An earthworm. [Written also made.] 
A gentlewoman; -- an appellation or courteous form of address given to a lady, especially an elderly or a married lady; -- much used in the address, at the beginning of a letter, to a woman. The corresponding word in addressing a man is Sir. 
My lady; -- a French title formerly given to ladies of quality; now, in France, given to all married women. Chaucer. 
lord." Shak. 
A person of wild behavior; an excitable, rash, violent person. Shak. 
To make mad; to drive to madness; to craze; to excite violently with passion; to make very angry; to enrage. 
To become mad; to act as if mad. They rave, recite, and madden round the land. Pope. 
A plant of the Rubia (R. tinctorum). The root is much used in dyeing red, and formerly was used in medicine. It is cultivated in France and Holland. See Rubiaceous. 
See Mad, n. 
of Make. 
Artificially produced; pieced together; formed by filling in; as, made ground; a made mast, in distinction from one consisting of a single spar. Made up. (a) Complete; perfect. "A made up villain." Shak. (b) Falsely devised; fabricated; as, a made up story. (c) Artificial; as, a made up figure or complexion. 
To make wet or moist. [R.] 
Wild; crack-brained. 
A genus of composite plants, of which one species (Madia sativa) is cultivated for the oil yielded from its seeds by pressure. This oil is sometimes used instead of olive oil for the table. 
Wet; moist; as, a madid eye. [R.] Beaconsfield. 
In a mad manner; without reason or understanding; wildly. 
A man who is mad; lunatic; a crazy person. When a man mistakes his thoughts for person and things, he is mad. A madman is properly so defined. Coleridge. 
The masterwort (Peucedanum Ostruthium). 
A large silk-and-cotton kerchief, usually of bright colors, such as those often used by negroes for turbans. 
A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), of California, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and edible red berries, which are often called madroña apples. [Written also madroño.] 
Majestic or majestically; -- a direction to perform a passage or piece of music in a dignified manner. 
To stammer. [Obs.] 
A magician. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson. 
Worn; fretted; as, a magged brace. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
The footless larva of any fly. See Larval. 
A name for daisies and camomiles of several kinds. 
A caste of priests, philosophers, and magicians, among the ancient Persians; hence, any holy men or sages of the East. The inspired Magi from the Orient came. Sandys. 
Of or pertaining to the Magi. 
One of the Magi, or priests of the Zoroastrian religion in Persia; an adherent of the Zoroastrian religion. -- Ma"gi*an*ism, n. 
A comprehensive name for all of the pretended arts which claim to produce effects by the assistance of supernatural beings, or departed spirits, or by a mastery of secret forces in nature attained by a study of occult science, including enchantment, conjuration, witchcraft, sorcery, necromancy, incantation, etc. An appearance made by some magic. Chaucer. Celestial magic, a supposed supernatural power which gave to spirits a kind of dominion over the planets, and to the planets an influence over men. -- Natural magic, the art of employing the powers of nature to produce effects apparently supernatural. -- Superstitious, or Geotic, magic, the invocation of devils or demons, involving the supposition of some tacit or express agreement between them and human beings. 
The amorphous or homogenous matrix or ground mass, as distinguished from well-defined crystals; as, the magma of porphyry. 
Magnet. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A bar or mass of steel or iron to which the peculiar properties of the loadstone have been imparted; -- called, in distinction from the loadstone, an artificial magnet. 
A bone of the carpus at the base of the third metacarpal bone. 
The Barbary ape. 
Any one of numerous species of the genus Pica and related genera, allied to the jays, but having a long graduated tail. 
The century plant, a species of Agave (A. Americana). See Agave. 
One of the dominant people of Hungary, allied to the Finns; a Hungarian. 
A kind of baboon; the wanderoo. 
Among Mohammedans, the last imam or leader of the faithful. The Sunni, the largest sect of the Mohammedans, believe that he is yet to appear. 
A name given to several malvaceous trees (species of Hibiscus, Ochroma, etc.), and to their strong fibrous inner bark, which is used for strings and cordage. 
A South African lemur (Galago maholi), having very large ears. [Written also moholi.] 
A large Turkish ship. Crabb. 
One of the dark race inhabiting principally the islands of Eastern Polynesia. Also used adjectively. 
The keeper and driver of an elephant. [East Indies] 
A device for saving power in stopping and starting a railroad car, by means of a heavy fly wheel. 
Any spider crab of the genus Maia, or family Maiadæ. 
The female of a ray or skate, esp. of the gray skate (Raia batis), and of the thornback (R. clavata). [Prov. Eng.] Fair maid. (Zoöl.) See under Fair, a. -- Maid of honor, a female attendant of a queen or royal princess; - - usually of noble family, and having to perform only nominal or honorary duties. -- Old maid. See under Old. 
In various parts of Asia, an open space, as for military exercises, or for a market place; an open grassy tract; an esplanade. 
To act coyly like a maiden; -- with it as an indefinite object. For had I maiden'd it, as many use. Loath for to grant, but loather to refuse. Bp. Hall. 
The meagre. 
Belonging to a fast day or fast; as, a maigre day. Walpole. Maigre food (R. C. Ch.), food allowed to be eaten on fast days. 
See Maim, and Mayhem. 
A South American carnivore of the genus Conepatus, allied to the skunk, but larger, and having a longer snout. The tail is not bushy. 
A spot. [Obs.] 
A contrivance of interlinked rings, for rubbing off the loose hemp on lines and white cordage. 
To deliver into the custody of the postoffice officials, or place in a government letter box, for transmission by mail; to post; as, to mail a letter. [U. S.] 
Protected by an external coat, or covering, of scales or plates. 
Spotted; speckled. 
In a maimed manner. 
Very extremely; as, main heavy. "I'm main dry." Foote. [Obs. or Low] 
One of the New England States. Maine law, any law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of intoxicating beverages, esp. one resembling that enacted in the State of Maine. 
Very strongly; mightily; to a great degree. [Obs.] Bacon. Shak. 
Principally; chiefly. 
A thing stolen found on the person of the thief. 
The farm attached to a mansion house. [Scot.] 
Of or pertaining to the genus Maia, or family Maiadeæ. 
A large species of American grass of the genus Zea (Z. Mays), widely cultivated as a forage and food plant; Indian corn. Also, its seed, growing on cobs, and used as food for men animals. Maize eater (Zoöl.), a South American bird of the genus Pseudoleistes, allied to the troupials. -- Maize yellow, a delicate pale yellow. 
Greater by a semitone, either in interval or in difference of pitch from another tone. Major axis (Geom.), the greater axis. See Focus, n., 2. -- Major key (Mus.), a key in which one and two, two and three, four and five, five and six and seven, make major seconds, and three and four, and seven and eight, make minor seconds. -- Major offense (Law), an offense of a greater degree which contains a lesser offense, as murder and robbery include assault. -- Major premise (Logic), that premise of a syllogism which contains the major term. -- Major scale (Mus.), the natural diatonic scale, which has semitones between the third and fourth, and seventh and fourth, and seventh and eighth degrees; the scale of the major mode, of which the third is major. See Scale, and Diatonic. -- Major second (Mus.), a second between whose tones is a difference in pitch of a step. -- Major sixth (Mus.), a sixth of four steps and a half step. In major keys the third and sixth from the key tone are major. Major keys and intervals, as distinguished from minors, are more cheerful. -- Major term (Logic), that term of a syllogism which forms the predicate of the conclusion. -- Major third (Mus.), a third of two steps. 
An officer next in rank above a captain and next below a lieutenant colonel; the lowest field officer. 
See Madjoun. 
A companion; a mate; often, a husband or a wife. [Obs.] For in this world no woman is Worthy to be my make. Chaucer. 
Structure, texture, constitution of parts; construction; shape; form. It our perfection of so frail a make As every plot can undermine and shake Dryden. On the make,bent upon making great profits; greedy of gain. [Low, U. S.] 
Made. Chaucer. 
The person who makes a promissory note. 
A lemur. See Lemur. 
A tool somewhat like a chisel with a groove in it, used by calkers of ships to finish the seams after the oakum has been driven in. 
Evils; wrongs; offenses against right and law. Mala in se Etym: [L.] (Law), offenses which are such from their own nature, at common law, irrespective of statute. -- Mala prohibita Etym: [L.] (Law), offenses prohibited by statute, as distinguished from mala in se, which are offenses at common law. 
A city and a province of Spain, on the Mediterranean. Hence, Malaga grapes, Malaga raisins, Malaga wines. 
Of or pertaining to the region of the cheek bone, or to the malar bone; jugal. 
The cheek bone, which forms a part of the lower edge of the orbit. 
A salt of malic acid. 
One of a race of a brown or copper complexion in the Malay Peninsula and the western islands of the Indian Archipelago. 
Evil; wicked; bad. [Obs.] Marston. 
Same as Mail, a bag. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Capable of producing fertilization, but not of bearing fruit; - - said of stamens and antheridia, and of the plants, or parts of plants, which bear them. 
A plant bearing only staminate flowers. 
Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the ethylene series, metameric with fumaric acid and obtained by heating malic acid. 
A bird of Celebes (megacephalon maleo), allied to the brush turkey. It makes mounds in which to lay its eggs. 
A little bag or budget. [Obs.] Shelton. 
A hypothetical radical derived from maleic acid. 
See Mauger. 
Pertaining to, or obtained from, apples; as, malic acid. Malic acid, a hydroxy acid obtained as a substance which is sirupy or crystallized with difficulty, and has a strong but pleasant sour taste. It occurs in many fruits, as in green apples, currants, etc. It is levorotatory or dextrorotatory according to the temperature and concentration. An artificial variety is a derivative of succinic acid, but has no action on polarized light, and thus malic acid is a remarkable case of physical isomerism. 
Any wicked or mischievous intention of the mind; a depraved inclination to mischief; an intention to vex, annoy, or injure another person, or to do a wrongful act without just cause or cause or excuse; a wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others; willfulness. Malice aforethought or prepense, malice previously and deliberately entertained. 
To regard with extreme ill will. [Obs.] 
To treat with malice; to show hatred toward; to abuse; to wrong; to injure. [Obs.] The people practice what mischiefs and villainies they will against private men, whom they malign by stealing their goods, or murdering them. Spenser. 
To entertain malice. [Obs.] 
A mop or sponge attached to a jointed staff for swabbing out a cannon. 
To beat with a mall; to beat with something heavy; to bruise; to maul. 
Formerly, among Teutonic nations, a meeting of the notables of a state for the transaction of public business, such meeting being a modification of the ancient popular assembly. Hence: (a) A court of justice. (b) A place where justice is administered. (c) A place where public meetings are held. Councils, which had been as frequent as diets or malls, ceased. Milman. 
A small maul with a short handle, -- used esp. for driving a tool, as a chisel or the like; also, a light beetle with a long handle, -- used in playing croquet. 
A spotted trout (Salvelinus malma), inhabiting Northern America, west of the Rocky Mountains; -- called also Dolly Varden trout, bull trout, red-spotted trout, and golet. 
The tarsius, or spectral lemur. 
Barley or other grain, steeped in water and dried in a kiln, thus forcing germination until the saccharine principle has been evolved. It is used in brewing and in the distillation of whisky. 
Relating to, containing, or made with, malt. Malt liquor, an alcoholic liquor, as beer, ale, porter, etc., prepared by fermenting an infusion of malt. -- Malt dust, fine particles of malt, or of the grain used in making malt; -used as a fertilizer. " Malt dust consists chiefly of the infant radicle separated from the grain." Sir H. Davy. -- Malt floor, a floor for drying malt. -- Malt house, or Malthouse, a house in which malt is made. -- Malt kiln, a heated chamber for drying malt. 
To make into malt; as, to malt barley. 
To become malt; also, to make grain into malt. Mortimer. 
Of or pertaining to the political economist, the Rev. T. R. Malthus, or conforming to his views; as, Malthusian theories. 
Consisting, or like, malt. Dickens. 
An evil. See Mala. 
Mamma. 
Mamma. 
See Mamma. 
Mother; -- word of tenderness and familiarity. [Written also mama.] Tell tales papa and mamma. Swift. 
A glandular organ for secreting milk, characteristic of all mammals, but usually rudimentary in the male; a mammary gland; a breast; under; bag. 
One of the Mammalia. Age of mammals. See under Age, n., 8. 
A fruit tree of tropical America, belonging to the genus Mammea (M. Americana); also, its fruit. The latter is large, covered with a thick, tough ring, and contains a bright yellow pulp of a pleasant taste and fragrant scent. It is often called mammee apple. 
To hesitate; to mutter doubtfully. [Obs.] 
An idol; a puppet; a doll. [Obs.] Selden. Shak. 
Riches; wealth; the god of riches; riches, personified. Ye can not serve God and Mammon. Matt. vi. 24. 
A child's name for mamma, mother. 
A person born of relations between whom marriage was forbidden by the Mosaic law; a bastard. Deut. xxiii. 2 (Douay version). 
Marriageable.[Obs.] 
Same as Menace. [Obs.] 
The handling or government of anything, but esp. of a horse; management; administration. See Manege. [Obs.] Young men, in the conduct and manage of actions, embrace more than they can hold. Bacon. Down, down I come; like glistering Phaëthon Wanting the manage of unruly jades. Shak. The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl. Shak. 
To direct affairs; to carry on business or affairs; to administer. Leave them to manage for thee. Dryden . 
See Mancus. 
A sleeve. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to Manchuria or its inhabitants. -- n. 
An old Anglo Saxon coin both of gold and silver, and of variously estimated values. The silver mancus was equal to about one shilling of modern English money. 
A demand. [Obs.] See Demand. 
See Maunder. 
A loose outer garment worn the 16th and 17th centuries. 
The long and heavy hair growing on the upper side of, or about, the neck of some quadrupedal animals, as the horse, the lion, etc. See Illust. of Horse. 
Having a mane. Maned seal (Zoöl.), the sea lion. -- Maned sheep (Zoöl.), the aoudad. 
A Hebrew weight for gold or silver, being one hundred shekels of gold and sixty shekels of silver. Ezek. xlv. 12. 
The benevolent spirits of the dead, especially of dead ancestors, regarded as family deities and protectors. Hail, O ye holy manes! Dryden. 
Showing manliness, or manly spirit; hence, brave, courageous, resolute, noble. " Manful hardiness." Chaucer. -- Man"ful*ly, adv. -- Man"ful*ness, n. 
See Mangonel. 
The scab or itch in cattle, dogs, and other beasts. Mange insect (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small parasitic mites, which burrow in the skin of cattle. horses, dogs, and other animals, causing the mange. The mange insect of the horse (Psoroptes, or Dermatodectes, equi), and that of cattle (Symbiotes, or Dermatophagys, bovis) are the most important species. See Acarina. 
The fore part of the deck, having a bulkhead athwart ships high enough to prevent water which enters the hawse holes from running over it. 
A machine for smoothing linen or cotton cloth, as sheets, tablecloths, napkins, and clothing, by roller pressure. Mangle rack (Mach.), a contrivance for converting continuous circular motion into reciprocating rectilinear motion, by means of a rack and pinion, as in the mangle. The pinion is held to the rack by a groove in such a manner that it passes alternately from one side of the rack to the other, and thus gives motion to it in opposite directions, according to the side in which its teeth are engaged. -- Mangle wheel, a wheel in which the teeth, or pins, on its face, are interrupted on one side, and the pinion, working in them, passes from inside to outside of the teeth alternately, thus converting the continuous circular motion of the pinion into a reciprocating circular motion of the wheel. 
To smooth with a mangle, as damp linen or cloth. 
See Mangel-wurzel. 
The kusimanse. 
Infected with the mange; scabby. 
Manageable. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Raving with madness; raging with disordered intellect; affected with mania; mad. 
A raving lunatic; a madman. 
Of or pert. to, or characterized by, mania, or excitement. 
Any species of the genus Manis, or family Manidæ. 
Mania; insanity. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M. Aipi), from which cassava and tapioca are prepared; also, cassava.[Written also mandioc, manihoc, manihot.] 
A genus of edentates, covered with large, hard, triangular scales, with sharp edges that overlap each other like tiles on a roof. They inhabit the warmest parts of Asia and Africa, and feed on ants. Called also Scaly anteater. See Pangolin. 
Of or pertaining to the language or people of the of Man. -- n. 
Having qualities becoming to a man; not childish or womanish; manlike, esp. brave, courageous, resolute, noble. Let's briefly put on manly readiness. Shak. Serene and manly, hardened to sustain The load of life. Dryden. 
In a manly manner; with the courage and fortitude of a manly man; as, to act manly. 
The food supplied to the Israelites in their journey through the wilderness of Arabia; hence, divinely supplied food. Ex. xvi. 15. 
Carriage; behavior; deportment; also, becoming behavior; well- bred carriage and address. Good manners are made up of petty sacrifices. Emerson. 
The muller, or crushing and grinding stone, used in grinding corn on a metate. [Mexico & Local U. S.] 
The land belonging to a lord or nobleman, or so much land as a lord or great personage kept in his own hands, for the use and subsistence of his family. My manors, rents, revenues, l forego. Shak. 
A male servant. 
See Coleoptera and Sea devil. 
The finish around a fireplace, covering the chimney-breast in front and sometimes on both sides; especially, a shelf above the fireplace, and its supports. [Written also mantle.] 
Of or pertaining to divination, or to the condition of one inspired, or supposed to be inspired, by a deity; prophetic. [R.] "Mantic fury." Trench. 
Any one of numerous species of voracious orthopterous insects of the genus Mantis, and allied genera. They are remarkable for their slender grotesque forms, and for holding their stout anterior legs in a manner suggesting hands folded in prayer. The common American species is M. Carolina. Mantis shrimp. (Zoöl.) See Sguilla. 
Same as Mantling. 
To cover or envelop, as with a mantle; to cloak; to hide; to disguise. Shak. 
See Mantelet. 
See Manteau. [Obs.] Bailey. 
A prayer; an invocation; a religious formula; a charm. [India] 
One who makes dresses, cloaks, etc., for women; a dressmaker. 
One of a series of progenitors of human beings, and authors of human wisdom. 
Of or pertaining to the hand; done or made by the hand; as, manual labor; the king's sign manual. "Manual and ocular examination." Tatham. Manual alphabet. See Dactylology. -- Manual exercise (Mil.) the exercise by which soldiers are taught the use of their muskets and other arms. -- Seal manual, the impression of a seal worn on the hand as a ring. -- Sign manual. See under Sign. 
A keyboard of an organ or harmonium for the fingers, as distinguished from the pedals; a clavier, or set of keys. Moore (Encyc. of Music). 
A wild cat (Felis manul), having long, soft, light-colored fur. It is found in the mountains of Central Asia, and dwells among rocks. 
Any matter which makes land productive; a fertilizing substance, as the contents of stables and barnyards, dung, decaying animal or vegetable substances, etc. Dryden. 
The distal segment of the fore limb, including the carpus and fore foot or hand. 
A small passageway, as in a mine, that a man may pass through. Raymond. 
Of or pertaining to the Isle of Man, or its inhabitants; as, the Manx language. Manx cat (Zoöl.), a breed of domestic cats having a rudimentary tail, containing only about three vertebrae. -- Manx shearwater (Zoöl.), an oceanic bird (Puffinus anglorum, or P. puffinus), called also Manx petrel, Manx puffin. It was formerly abundant in the Isle of Man. 
The language of the inhabitants of the Isle of Man, a dialect of the Celtic. 
A retinue of servants; a household. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Consisting of a great number; numerous; not few. Thou shalt be a father of many nations. Gen. xvii. 4. Not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called. 1 Cor. i. 26. 
Having many faculties; versatile; many-sided. 
One of the aboriginal inhabitants of New Zealand; also, the original language of New Zealand. -- a. 
To represent by a map; -- often with out; as, to survey and map, or map out, a county. Hence, figuratively: To represent or indicate systematically and clearly; to sketch; to plan; as, to map, or map out, a journey; to map out business. I am near to the place where they should meet, if Pisanio have mapped it truly. Shak. 
The raccoon. 
A tree of the genus Acer, including about fifty species. A. saccharinum is the rock maple, or sugar maple, from the sap of which sugar is made, in the United States, in great quantities, by evaporation; the red or swamp maple is A. rubrum; the silver maple, A. dasycarpum, having fruit wooly when young; the striped maple, A. Pennsylvanium, called also moosewood. The common maple of Europe is A. campestre, the sycamore maple is A. Pseudo-platanus, and the Norway maple is A. platanoides. 
A Chilian shrub (Aristotelia Maqui). Its bark furnishes strings for musical instruments, and a medicinal wine is made from its berries. 
A small lake. See Mere. [Prov. Eng.] 
A mark or blemish made by bruising, scratching, or the like; a disfigurement. 
The principal or ruling evil spirit. E. Arnold. 
A female demon who torments people in sleep by crouching on their chests or stomachs, or by causing terrifying visions. 
The Patagonian cavy (Dolichotis Patagonicus.) 
A sacred inclosure or temple; -- so called by the islanders of the Pacific Ocean. 
To rove in quest of plunder; to make an excursion for booty; to plunder. "Marauding hosts." Milman. 
An excursion for plundering. 
To stain or vein like marble; to variegate in color; as, to marble the edges of a book, or the surface of paper. 
Containing, or resembling, marble. 
The refuse matter which remains after the pressure of fruit, particularly of grapes. 
A merchant. [Obs.] Shak. 
The third month of the year, containing thirty-one days. The stormy March is come at last, With wind, and cloud, and changing skies. Bryant. As mad as a March Hare, an old English Saying derived from the fact that March is the rutting time of hares, when they are excitable and violent. Wright. 
A territorial border or frontier; a region adjacent to a boundary line; a confine; -- used chiefly in the plural, and in English history applied especially to the border land on the frontiers between England and Scotland, and England and Wales. Geneva is situated in the marches of several dominions -- France, Savoy, and Switzerland. Fuller. Lords of waste marches, kings of desolate isles. Tennyson. 
To border; to be contiguous; to lie side by side. [Obs.] That was in a strange land Which marcheth upon Chimerie. Gower. To march with, to have the same boundary for a greater or less distance; -- said of an estate. 
TO cause to move with regular steps in the manner of a soldier; to cause to move in military array, or in a body, as troops; to cause to advance in a steady, regular, or stately manner; to cause to go by peremptory command, or by force. March them again in fair array. Prior. 
One who marches. 
The state or quality of being withered or lean. [R.] 
A wasting away of flesh; decay. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
The female of the horse and other equine quadrupeds. 
Sighing, suffocative panting, intercepted utterance, with a sense of pressure across the chest, occurring during sleep; the incubus; -- obsolete, except in the compound nightmare. I will ride thee o' nights like the mare. Shak. 
A Marsh. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A European whitefish of the genus Coregonus. 
An American wild cat (Felis tigrina), ranging from Mexico to Brazil. It is spotted with black. Called also long-tailed cat. 
Border; margin; edge; verge. [Poetic] Tennyson. Along the river's stony marge. Wordsworth. 
The difference between the cost and the selling price of an article. 
Marginal notes. 
Pertaining to the Virgin Mary, or sometimes to Mary, Queen of England, daughter of Henry VIII. Of all the Marian martyrs, Mr. Philpot was the best-born gentleman. Fuller. Maid Marian. See Maidmarian in the Vocabulary. 
Marry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A kind of bellflower, Companula Trachelium, once called Viola Mariana; but it is not a violet. 
Formed by the action of the currents or waves of the sea; as, marine deposits. Marine acid (Chem.), hydrochloric acid. [Obs.] -- Marine barometer. See under Barometer. -- Marine corps, a corps formed of the officers, noncommissioned officers, privates, and musicants of marines. -- Marine engine (Mech.), a steam engine for propelling a vessel. -- Marine glue. See under Glue. -- Marine insurance, insurance against the perils of the sea, including also risks of fire, piracy, and barratry. -- Marine interest, interest at any rate agreed on for money lent upon respondentia and bottomry bonds. -- Marine law. See under Law. -- Marine league, three geographical miles. -- Marine metal, an alloy of lead, antimony, and mercury, made for sheathing ships. Mc Elrath. -- Marine soap, cocoanut oil soap; -- so called because, being quite soluble in salt water, it is much used on shipboard. -- Marine store, a store where old canvas, ropes, etc., are bought and sold; a junk shop. [Eng.] 
Having the lower part of the body like a fish. Crabb. 
Low, wet ground; a marsh; a fen; a bog; a moor. [Archaic] Milton. Tennyson. 
Of or pertaining to a husband; as, marital rights, duties, authority. "Marital affection." Ayliffe. 
A license of reprisals. See Marque. 
A characteristic or essential attribute; a differential. 
To take particular notice; to observe critically; to note; to remark. Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeketh maschief. 1 Kings xx. 7. 
Designated or distinguished by, or as by, a mark; hence; noticeable; conspicuous; as, a marked card; a marked coin; a marked instance. -- Mark"ed*ly, adv. J. S. Mill. A marked man, a man who is noted by a community, or by a part of it, as, for excellence or depravity; -- usually with an unfavorable suggestion. 
See Marquee. 
One who or that which marks. Specifically: (a) One who keeps account of a game played, as of billiards. (b) A counter used in card playing and other games. (c) (Mil.) The soldier who forms the pilot of a wheeling column, or marks the direction of an alignment. (d) An attachment to a sewing machine for marking a line on the fabric by creasing it. 
The privelege granted to a town of having a public market. 
To deal in a market; to buy or sell; to make bargains for provisions or goods. 
To expose for sale in a market; to traffic in; to sell in a market, and in an extended sense, to sell in any manner; as, most of the farmes have marketed their crops. Industrious merchants meet, and market there The world's collected wealth. Southey. 
A marquis. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To cover, as part of a rope, with marline, marking a pecular hitch at each turn to prevent unwinding. Marling spike. (Naut.) See under Marline. 
A mixed earthy substance, consisting of carbonate of lime, clay, and sand, in very varivble proportions, and accordingly designated as calcareous, clayey, or sandy. See Greensand. 
To overspread or manure with marl; as, to marl a field. 
The American great marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa). Applied also to the red-breasted godwit (Limosa hæmatica). Hook-billed marlin, a curlew. 
Consisting or partaking of marl; resembling marl; abounding with marl. 
Any rodent of the genus Arctomys. The common European marmot (A. marmotta) is about the size of a rabbit, and inhabits the higher regions of the Alps and Pyrenees. The bobac is another European species. The common American species (A. monax) is the woodchuck. 
See Maroon, the color. 
In the West Indies and Guiana, a fugitive slave, or a free negro, living in the mountains. 
To put (a person) ashore on a desolate island or coast and leave him to his fate. Marooning party, a social excursion party that sojourns several days on the shore or in some retired place; a prolonged picnic. [Southern U. S.] Bartlett. 
Having the color called maroon. See 4th Maroon. Maroon lake, lake prepared from madder, and distinguished for its transparency and the depth and durability of its color. 
One who, by his officious 
A license to pass the limits of a jurisdiction, or boundary of a country, for the purpose of making reprisals. Letters of marque, Letters of marque and reprisal, a license or extraordinary commission granted by a government to a private person to fit out a privateer or armed ship to cruise at sea and make prize of the enemy's ships and merchandise. The ship so commissioned is sometimes called a letter of marque. 
A coarse grass found on sandy beaches (Ammophila arundinacea). See Beach grass, under Beach. 
One who mars or injures. 
A paper or pasteboard box or shell, wound about with strong twine, filled with an explosive, and ignited with a fuse, -- used to make a noise like a cannon. [Written also maroon.] 
The tissue which fills the cavities of most bones; the medulla. In the larger cavities it is commonly very fatty, but in the smaller cavities it is much less fatty, and red or reddish in color. 
To fill with, or as with, marrow of fat; to glut. 
To enter into the conjugal or connubial state; to take a husband or a wife. I will, therefore, that the younger women marry. 1 Tim. v. 14. Marrrying man, a man disposed to marry. [Colloq.] 
Indeed ! in truth ! -- a term of asseveration said to have been derived from the practice of swearing by the Virgin Mary. [Obs.] Shak. 
The god of war and husbandry. 
A tract of soft wet land, commonly covered partially or wholly with water; a fen; a swamp; a morass. [Written also marish.] Marsh asphodel (Bot.), a plant (Nartheeium ossifragum) with linear equitant leaves, and a raceme of small white flowers; -- called also bog asphodel. -- Marsh cinquefoil (Bot.), a plant (Potentilla palustris) having purple flowers, and found growing in marshy places; marsh five- finger. -- Marsh elder. (Bot.) (a) The guelder-rose or cranberry tree (Viburnum Opulus). (b) In the United States, a composite shrub growing in salt marshes (Iva frutescens). -- Marsh five-finger. (Bot.) See Marsh cinquefoil (above). -- Marsh gas. (Chem.) See under Gas. -- Marsh grass (Bot.), a genus (Spartina) of coarse grasses growing in marshes; -- called also cord grass. The tall S. cynosuroides is not good for hay unless cut very young. The low S. juncea is a common component of salt hay. -- Marsh harrier (Zoöl.), a European hawk or harrier (Circus æruginosus); -- called also marsh hawk, moor hawk, moor buzzard, puttock. -- Marsh hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A hawk or harrier (Circus cyaneus), native of both America and Europe. The adults are bluish slate above, with a white rump. Called also hen harrier, and mouse hawk. (b) The marsh harrier. -- Marsh hen (Zoöl.), a rail; esp., Rallus elegans of fresh-water marshes, and R. longirostris of salt-water marshes. -- Marsh mallow (Bot.), a plant of the genus Althæa ( A. officinalis) common in marshes near the seashore, and whose root is much used in medicine as a demulcent. -- Marsh marigold. (Bot.) See in the Vocabulary. -- Marsh pennywort (Bot.), any plant of the umbelliferous genus Hydrocotyle; low herbs with roundish leaves, growing in wet places; - - called also water pennywort. -- Marsh quail (Zoöl.), the meadow lark. -- Marsh rosemary (Bot.), a plant of the genus Statice (S. Limonium), common in salt marshes. Its root is powerfully astringent, and is sometimes used in medicine. Called also sea lavender. -- Marsh samphire (Bot.), a plant (Salicornia herbacea) found along seacoasts. See Glasswort. -- Marsh St. John's-wort (Bot.), an American herb (Elodes Virginica) with small opposite leaves and flesh-colored flowers. -- Marsh tea. (Bot.). Same as Labrador tea. -- Marsh trefoil. (Bot.) Same as Buckbean. -- Marsh wren (Zoöl.), any species of small American wrens of the genus Cistothorus, and allied genera. They chiefly inhabit salt marshes. 
One of the Marsipobranchia. 
To buy or sell in, or as in, a mart. [Obs.] To sell and mart your officer for gold To undeservers. Shak. 
To traffic. [Obs.] Shak. 
A lily (Lilium Martagon) with purplish red flowers, found in Europe and Asia. 
To make a blow with, or as with, a hammer. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A bird. See Martin. 
Any one of several fur-bearing carnivores of the genus Mustela, closely allied to the sable. Among the more important species are the European beech, or stone, marten (Mustela foina); the pine marten (M. martes); and the American marten, or sable (M. Americana), which some zoölogists consider only a variety of the Russian sable. 
A perforated stone-faced runner for grinding. 
One of several species of swallows, usually having the tail less deeply forked than the tail of the common swallows. [Written also marten.] 
Act of martyrizing, or state of being martyrized; torture. B. Jonson. 
To be struck with surprise, astonishment, or wonder; to wonder. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. 1 john iii. 13. 
In a marvelous manner; wonderfully; strangely. 
A stone, or cast-iron plate, or former, on which hot glass is rolled to give it shape. 
Marrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Marry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A lozenge voided. 
See Maze. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Mazer. 
A mesh. [Obs.] 
To convert into a mash; to reduce to a soft pulpy state by beating or pressure; to bruise; to crush; as, to mash apples in a mill, or potatoes with a pestle. Specifically (Brewing), to convert, as malt, or malt and meal, into the mash which makes wort. Mashing tub, a tub for making the mash in breweries and distilleries; -- called also mash tun, and mash vat. 
A golf club like the iron, but with a shorter head, slightly more lofted, used chiefly for short approaches. 
Produced by crushing or bruising; resembling, or consisting of, a mash. 
A grotesque head or face, used to adorn keystones and other prominent parts, to spout water in fountains, and the like; -- called also mascaron. 
Same as Personate. 
One who wears a mask; one who appears in disguise at a masquerade. 
To confuse; to stupefy. [Obs.] Holland. 
Composed of different sorts; as, maslin bread, which is made of rye mixed with a little wheat. [Written also meslin, mislin, etc.] 
To build stonework or brickwork about, under, in, over, etc.; to construct by masons; -- with a prepositional suffix; as, to mason up a well or terrace; to mason in a kettle or boiler. 
A Jewish critical work on the text of the Hebrew Scriptures, composed by several learned rabbis of the school of Tiberias, in the eighth and ninth centuries. [Written also Masorah, Massora, and Massorah.] 
A mask; a masquerade. 
The sacrifice in the sacrament of the Eucharist, or the consecration and oblation of the host. 
To celebrate Mass. [Obs.] Hooker. 
A medicinal substance made into a cohesive, homogeneous lump, of consistency suitable for making pills; as, blue mass. 
To form or collect into a mass; to form into a collective body; to bring together into masses; to assemble. But mass them together and they are terrible indeed. Coleridge. 
A priest who celebrates Mass. [R.] Bale. 
Compacted into, or consisting of, a mass; having bulk and weight ot substance; ponderous; bulky and heavy; weight; heavy; as, a massy shield; a massy rock. Your swords are now too massy for your strengths, And will not be uplifted. Shak. Yawning rocks in massy fragments fly. Pope. 
The fruit of the oak and beech, or other forest trees; nuts; acorns. Oak mast, and beech, . . . they eat. Chapman. Swine under an oak filling themselves with the mast. South. 
A pole, or long, strong, round piece of timber, or spar, set upright in a boat or vessel, to sustain the sails, yards, rigging, etc. A mast may also consist of several pieces of timber united by iron bands, or of a hollow pillar of iron or steel. The tallest pine Hewn on Norwegian hills, to be the mast Of some great ammiral. Milton. 
To furnish with a mast or masts; to put the masts of in position; as, to mast a ship. 
Furnished with a mast or masts; -- chiefly in composition; as, a three-masted schooner. 
A vessel having (so many) masts; -- used only in compounds; as, a two-master. 
The commander of a merchant vessel; -- usually called captain. Also, a commissioned officer in the navy ranking next above ensign and below lieutenant; formerly, an officer on a man-of-war who had immediate charge, under the commander, of sailing the vessel. 
To be skillful; to excel. [Obs.] 
A low shrubby tree of the genus Pistacia (P. Lentiscus), growing upon the islands and coasts of the Mediterranean, and producing a valuable resin; -- called also, mastic tree. 
Full of mast; abounding in acorns, etc. 
A name given by coppersmiths to an alloy of copper, tin, iron, etc., usually called white metal. [Written also matt.] 
Cast down; dejected; overthrown; slain. [Obs.] When he saw them so piteous and so maat. Chaucer. 
To grow thick together; to become interwoven or felted together like a mat. 
The three-banded armadillo (Tolypeutis tricinctus). See Illust. under Loricata. 
Anything used for catching and retaining or communicating fire, made of some substance which takes fire readily, or remains burning some time; esp., a small strip or splint of wood dipped at one end in a substance which can be easily ignited by friction, as a preparation of phosphorus or chlorate of potassium. Match box, a box for holding matches. -- Match tub, a tub with a perforated cover for holding slow matches for firing cannon, esp. on board ship. The tub contains a little water in the bottom, for extinguishing sparks from the lighted matches. -- Quick match, threads of cotton or cotton wick soaked in a solution of gunpowder mixed with gum arabic and boiling water and afterwards strewed over with mealed powder. It burns at the rate of one yard in thirteen seconds, and is used as priming for heavy mortars, fireworks, etc. -- Slow match, slightly twisted hempen rope soaked in a solution of limewater and saltpeter or washed in a lye of water and wood ashes. It burns at the rate of four or five inches an hour, and is used for firing cannon, fireworks, etc. 
A perforated board, block of plaster, hardened sand, etc., in which a pattern is partly imbedded when a mold is made, for giving shape to the surfaces of separation between the parts of the mold. Match boarding (Carp.), boards fitted together with tongue and groove, or prepared to be so fitted. -- Match game, a game arranged as a test of superiority. -- Match plane (Carp.), either of the two planes used to shape the edges of boards which are joined by grooving and tonguing. -- Match plate (Founding), a board or plate on the opposite sides of which the halves of a pattern are fastened, to facilitate molding. Knight. -- Match wheel (Mach.), a cogwheel of suitable pitch to work with another wheel; specifically, one of a pair of cogwheels of equal size. 
Capable of being matched; comparable on equal conditions; adapted to being joined together; correspondent. -- Match"a*ble*ness, n. Sir Walter Raleigh . . . is matchable with the best of the ancients. Hakewill. 
The Paraguay tea, being the dried leaf of the Brazilian holly (Ilex Paraguensis). The infusion has a pleasant odor, with an agreeable bitter taste, and is much used for tea in South America. 
Same as Checkmate. 
See 2d Mat. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An officer in a merchant vessel ranking next below the captain. If there are more than one bearing the title, they are called, respectively, first mate, second mate, third mate, etc. In the navy, a subordinate officer or assistant; as, master's mate; surgeon's mate. 
To be or become a mate or mates, especially in sexual companionship; as, some birds mate for life; this bird will not mate with that one. 
See Alma mater, Dura mater, and Pia mater. 
A mowing, or that which is gathered by mowing; -- chiefly used in composition; as, an aftermath. [Obs.] The first mowing thereof, for the king's use, is wont to be sooner than the common math. Bp. Hall. 
See Madder. 
The mayweed. Cf. Maghet. 
A Peruvian plant (Piper, or Artanthe, elongatum), allied to the pepper, the leaves of which are used as a styptic and astringent. 
A fat herring with undeveloped roe. [Written also matty.] [Eng. & Scot.] 
A French mastiff. 
Morning worship or service; morning prayers or songs. The winged choristers began To chirp their matins. Cleveland. 
Of or pertaining to the morning, or to matins; used in the morning; matutinal. 
The womb. All that openeth the matrix is mine. Ex. xxxiv. 19. 
Of or pertaining to a matron; suitable to an elderly lady or to a married woman; grave; motherly. 
See Matte. Knight. 
A partly reduced copper sulphide, obtained by alternately roasting and melting copper ore in separating the metal from associated iron ores, and called coarse metal, fine metal, etc., according to the grade of fineness. On the exterior it is dark brown or black, but on a fresh surface is yellow or bronzy in color. 
Having a dull surface; unburnished; as, matted gold leaf or gilding. Matted glass, glass ornamented with figures on a dull ground. 
That which is permanent, or is supposed to be given, and in or upon which changes are effected by psychological or physical processes and relations; -- opposed to form. Mansel. 
To regard as important; to take account of; to care for. [Obs.] He did not matter cold nor hunger. H. Brooke. 
To bring or hasten to maturity; to promote ripeness in; to ripen; to complete; as, to mature one's plans. Bacon. 
The state or quality of being mature; maturity. 
A native house servant in India. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 
A gray plaid; -- used by shepherds in Scotland. 
To throw onto confusion or disorder; to render maudlin. [Obs.] 
To defy. [Obs.] J. Webster. 
A hare. [Scot.] 
A heavy wooden hammer or beetle. [Written also mall.] 
The common mallow. 
See Mawmet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To munch. [Obs.] 
See Manche. 
A hand basket. [Obs.] Herrick. 
An East Indian weight, varying in different localities from 25 to about 82 pounds avoirdupois. 
Mangy. [Obs.] Skelton. 
A color of a delicate purple, violet, or lilac. Mauve aniline (Chem.), a dyestuff produced artificially by the oxidation of commercial aniline, and the first discovered of the so-called coal- tar, or aniline, dyes. It consists of the sulphate of mauveïne, and is a dark brown or bronze amorphous powder, which dissolves to a beatiful purple color. Called also aniline purple, violine, etc. 
The European throstle or song thrush (Turdus musicus). 
A gull. 
An old game at cards. Sir A. Weldon. 
See Malkin, and Maukin. 
A slattern; a mawk. [Prov. Eng.] 
Maggoty. [Prov. Eng.] 
A puppet; a doll; originally, an idol, because in the Middle Ages it was generally believed that the Mohammedans worshiped images representing Mohammed. [Obs.] Wyclif. Beau. & Fl. 
The longest note formerly used, equal to two longs, or four breves; a large. 
An auxiliary verb qualifyng the meaning of another verb, by expressing: (a) Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can. How may a man, said he, with idle speech, Be won to spoil the castle of his health ! Spenser. For what he [the king] may do is of two kinds; what he may do as just, and what he may do as possible. Bacon. For of all sad words of tongue or pen The saddest are these: "It might have been." Whittier. (b) Liberty; permission; allowance. Thou mayst be no longer steward. Luke xvi. 2. (c) Contingency or liability; possibility or probability. Though what he learns he speaks, and may advance Some general maxims, or be right by chance. Pope. (d) Modesty, courtesy, or concession, or a desire to soften a question or remark. How old may Phillis be, you ask. Prior. (e) Desire or wish, as in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. "May you live happily." Dryden. May be, and It may be, are used as equivalent to possibly, perhaps, by chance, peradventure. See 1st Maybe. 
A maiden. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. The palm and may make country houses gay. Nash. Plumes that micked the may. Tennyson. 
The name for the doctrine of the unreality of matter, called, in English, idealism; hence, nothingness; vanity; illusion. 
A form of corbel arch employing regular small corbels. 
Perhaps; possibly; peradventure. Maybe the amorous count solicits her. Shak. In a liberal and, maybe, somewhat reckless way. Tylor. 
Possible; probable, but not sure. [R.] Then add those maybe years thou hast to live. Driden. 
Possibility; uncertainty. [R.] What they offer is mere maybe and shift. Creech. 
Perhaps; peradventure. [Prov. or Dialectic] 
The maiming of a person by depriving him of the use of any of his members which are necessary for defense or protection. See Maim. 
The celebrating of May Day. "He met her once a-Maying." Milton. 
The chief magistrate of a city or borough; the chief officer of a municipal corporation. In some American cities there is a city court of which the major is chief judge. 
The edible fruit of a passion flower, especially that of the North American Passiflora incarnata, an oval yellowish berry as large as a small apple. 
A kind of small black cherry. 
The jaw; the head or skull. [Obs.] Shak. 
To knock on the head. [Obs.] 
To perplex greatly; to bewilder; to astonish and confuse; to amaze. South. 
To be bewildered. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A large drinking bowl; -- originally made of maple. [Obs.] Their brimful mazers to the feasting bring. Drayton. 
In a mazy manner. 
Perplexed with turns and windings; winding; intricate; confusing; perplexing; embarrassing; as, mazy error. Milton. To range amid the mazy thicket. Spenser. To run the ring, and trace the mazy round. Dryden. 
To skulk; to cower. See Mich. 
A meadow. A mede All full of freshe flowers, white and reede. Chaucer. To fertile vales and dewy meads My weary, wandering steps he leads. Addison. 
Of or pertaining to a meadow; of the nature of a meadow; produced, growing, or living in, a meadow. "Fat meadow ground." Milton. 
A large European sciænoid fish (Sciæna umbra or S. aquila), having white bloodless flesh. It is valued as a food fish. [Written also maigre.] 
A hook with a long handle. [Obs.] Tusser. 
A part; a fragment; a portion. [Obs.] 
The portion of food taken at a particular time for the satisfaction of appetite; the quantity usually taken at one time with the purpose of satisfying hunger; a repast; the acas, the traveler has not eaten a good meal for a week; there was silence during the meal. What strange fish Hath made his meal on thee Shak. 
Maize or Indian corn; -- the common name in South Africa. 
Using soft words; plausible; affectedly or timidly delicate of speech; unwilling to tell the truth in plain language. "Mealy-mouthed philanthropies." Tennyson. She was a fool to be mealy-mouthed where nature speaks so plain. L'Estrange. -- Meal"y-mouth`ness, n. 
To have a purpose or intention. [Rare, except in the phrase to mean well, or ill.] Shak. 
Average; having an intermediate value between two extremes, or between the several successive values of a variable quantity during one cycle of variation; as, mean distance; mean motion; mean solar day. Mean distance (of a planet from the sun) (Astron.), the average of the distances throughout one revolution of the planet, equivalent to the semi-major axis of the orbit. -- Mean error (Math. Phys.), the average error of a number of observations found by taking the mean value of the positive and negative errors without regard to sign. -- Mean-square error, or Error of the mean square (Math. Phys.), the error the square of which is the mean of the squares of all the errors; -- called also, especially by European writers, mean error. -- Mean line. (Crystallog.) Same as Bisectrix. -- Mean noon, noon as determined by mean time. -- Mean proportional (between two numbers) (Math.), the square root of their product. -- Mean sun, a fictitious sun supposed to move uniformly in the equator so as to be on the meridian each day at mean noon. -- Mean time, time as measured by an equable motion, as of a perfect clock, or as reckoned on the supposition that all the days of the year are of a mean or uniform length, in contradistinction from apparent time, or that actually indicated by the sun, and from sidereal time, or that measured by the stars. 
A quantity having an intermediate value between several others, from which it is derived, and of which it expresses the resultant value; usually, unless otherwise specified, it is the simple average, formed by adding the quantities together and dividing by their number, which is called an arithmetical mean. A geometrical mean is the square root of the product of the quantities. 
Moderately. [Obs.] A man meanly learned himself, but not meanly affectioned to set forward learning in others. Ascham. 
In a mean manner; unworthily; basely; poorly; ungenerously. While the heaven-born child All meanly wrapt in the rude manger lies. Milton. Would you meanly thus rely On power you know I must obey Prior. We can not bear to have others think meanly of them [our kindred]. I. Watts. 
of Mean. 
A boundary. See Mere. [Obs.] 
Five hundred; as, a mease of herrings. [Prov. Eng.] 
A leper. [Obs.] [Written also meazel, and mesel.] Wyclif (Matt. x. 8. ). 
A tapeworm larva. See 2d Measles, 4. 
Containing larval tapeworms; -- said of pork and beef. 
To supply with food. [Obs.] Tusser. His shield well lined, his horses meated well. Chapman. 
Of or pertaining to a meatus; resembling a meatus. Owen. 
A sweet liquor; mead. [Obs.] Chaucer. Milton. 
A natural passage or canal; as, the external auditory meatus. See Illust. of Ear. 
Abounding in meat. 
The sea mew. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See Mew, to cry as a cat. 
See Mewl, and Miaul. 
See 1st Measle. [Obs.] 
See Moebles. [Obs.] 
A rope of hair or of maguey fiber, for tying horses, etc. [Southwestern U. S.] 
A piece of metal in the form of a coin, struck with a device, and intended to preserve the remembrance of a notable event or an illustrious person, or to serve as a reward. 
To honor or reward with a medal. "Medaled by the king." Thackeray. 
To mix; to mingle. [Obs.] Chaucer. "Wine meddled with gall." Wyclif (Matt. xxvii. 34). 
A native or inhabitant of Media in Asia. 
See lst & 2d Mead, and Meed. [Obs.] 
pl. of Medium. 
One of the sonant mutes b, d, g (b, d, g), in Greek, or of their equivalents in other languages, so named as intermediate between the tenues, p, t, k (p, t, k), and the aspiratæ (aspirates) f, th, x (ph or f, th, ch). Also called middle mute, or medial, and sometimes soft mute. 
Of or pertaining to a mean or average; mean; as, medial alligation. 
See 2d Media. 
Situated in the middle; lying in a plane dividing a bilateral animal into right and left halves; -- said of unpaired organs and parts; as, median coverts. Median line. (a) (Anat.) Any line in the mesial plane; specif., either of the lines in which the mesial plane meets the surface of the body. (b) (Geom.) The line drawn from an angle of a triangle to the middle of the opposite side; any line having the nature of a diameter. -- Median plane (Anat.), the mesial plane. -- Median point (Geom.), the point where the three median lines of a triangle mutually intersect. 
A median line or point. 
A leguminous plant of the genus Medicago. The black medic is the Medicago lupulina; the purple medic, or lucern, is M. sativa. 
Medical. [R.] 
Science of medicine. [Obs.] 
Same as Para. 
See Mean. (c) (Logic) The mean or middle term of a syllogism; that by which the extremes are brought into connection. 
Having a middle position or degree; mean; intermediate; medial; as, a horse of medium size; a decoction of medium strength. 
The third or middle finger; the third digit, or that which corresponds to it. 
A tree of the genus Mespilus (M. Germanica); also, the fruit of the tree. The fruit is something like a small apple, but has a bony endocarp. When first gathered the flesh is hard and austere, and it is not eaten until it has begun to decay. Japan medlar (Bot.), the loquat. See Loquat. -- Neapolitan medlar (Bot.), a kind of thorn tree (Cratægus Azarolus); also, its fruit. 
To mix; to mingle; to meddle. [Written also medly.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A composition of passages detached from several different compositions; a potpourri. 
See Medle. Johnson. 
A class of claret wines, including several varieties, from the district of Médoc in the department of Gironde. 
The Gorgon; or one of the Gorgons whose hair was changed into serpents, after which all who looked upon her were turned into stone. 
See Mich. [Obs. or Colloq.] 
Worthy of meed, reward, or recompense; meritorious. "Meedful works." Wiclif. 
To make meek; to nurture in gentleness and humility. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In a meek manner. Spenser. 
Simple; unmixed. See Mere, a. [Obs.] 
See Mere, a lake. 
A boundary. See Mere. 
An assembling together; esp., the assembling of huntsmen for the hunt; also, the persons who so assemble, and the place of meeting. 
Suitable; fit; proper; appropriate; qualified; convenient. It was meet that we should make merry. Luke xv. 32. To be meet with, to be even with; to be equal to. [Obs.] 
Meetly. [Obs.] Shak. 
To render fit. [R.] 
One who meets. 
, Mead. See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Fitly; suitably; properly. 
One of the larger measures of work, amounting to one million ergs; -- called also megalerg. 
One of the larger measures of electrical resistance, amounting to one million ohms. 
A sudden vertigo in a horse, succeeded sometimes by unconsciousness, produced by an excess of blood in the brain; a mild form of apoplexy. Youatt. 
The British smooth sole, or scaldfish (Psetta arnoglossa). 
See Menge. 
The dark coloring matter of the liquid of the cuttlefish. 
A white or buff-colored granular powder, 
In the game of pinochle, to declare or announce for a score; as, to meld a sequence. 
Any combination or score which may be declared, or melded, in pinochle. 
A fight in which the combatants are mingled 
See Mel. 
An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C30H60, of the ethylene series, obtained from beeswax as a white, scaly, crystalline wax; -- called also melissene, and melissylene. 
Of or pertaining to song; lyric; tuneful. 
To mix; to meddle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Honey. [Obs.] Warner. 
A mill. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A mêlée; a conflict. Tennyson. 
See Mellitic. [R.] 
To make mellow. Shak. If the Weather prove frosty to mellow it [the ground], they do not plow it again till April. Mortimer. The fervor of early feeling is tempered and mellowed by the ripeness of age. J. C. Shairp. 
To become mellow; as, ripe fruit soon mellows. "Prosperity begins to mellow." Shak. 
A mill. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A rhythmical succession of single tones, ranging for the most part within a given key, and so related together as to form a musical whole, having the unity of what is technically called a musical thought, at once pleasing to the ear and characteristic in expression. 
A genus of beetles without wings, but having short oval elytra; the oil beetles. These beetles are sometimes used instead of cantharides for raising blisters. See Oil beetle, under Oil. 
The juicy fruit of certain cucurbitaceous plants, as the muskmelon, watermelon, and citron melon; also, the plant that produces the fruit. 
See 2d Milt. 
Capable of being melted. 
, One who, or that which, melts. 
A kind of stout woolen cloth with unfinished face and without raised nap. A commoner variety has a cotton warp. 
To remember; to cause to remember; to mention. [Obs.] 
A part of an animal capable of performing a distinct office; an organ; a limb. We have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office. Rom. xii. 4. 
A celebrated Egyptian statue near Thebes, said to have the property of emitting a harplike sound at sunrise. 
Of or pertaining to the ancient city of Memphis in Egypt; hence, Egyptian; as, Memphian darkness. 
pl. of Man. 
A man; one; -- used with a verb in the singular, and corresponding to the present indefinite one or they. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Men moot give silver to the poure triars. Chaucer. A privy thief, men clepeth death. Chaucer. 
The show of an intention to inflict evil; a threat or threatening; indication of a probable evil or catastrophe to come. His (the pope's) commands, his rebukes, his menaces. Milman. The dark menace of the distant war. Dryden. 
To act in threatening manner; to wear a threatening aspect. Who ever knew the heavens menace so Shak. 
See Manage. 
A collection of animals; a menagerie. [Obs.] Addison. 
To grow better; to advance to a better state; to become improved. Shak. 
One who mends or repairs. 
See Amends. [Obs.] Shak. 
To mix. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A large stone set upright in olden times as a memorial or monument. Many, of unknown date, are found in Brittany and throughout Northern Europe. 
A disease characterized by deafness and vertigo, resulting in incoördination of movement. It is supposed to depend upon a morbid condition of the semicircular canals of the internal ear. Named after Ménière, a French physician. 
A minnow. 
Belonging to the table; transacted at table; as, mensa conversation. 
Occurring once in a month; monthly. 
Manliness; dignity; comeliness; civility. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] -- Mense"ful, a. -- Mense"less, a. 
To grace. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
The catamenial or menstrual discharge, a periodic flow of blood or bloody fluid from the uterus or female generative organs. 
of Menge. 
Of or pertaining to the chin; genian; as, the mental nerve; the mental region. 
A plate or scale covering the mentum or chin of a fish or reptile. 
Of or pertaining to the mind; intellectual; as, mental faculties; mental operations, conditions, or exercise. What a mental power This eye shoots forth! Shak. Mental alienation, insanity. -- Mental arithmetic, the art or practice of solving arithmetical problems by mental processes, unassisted by written figures. 
A widely distributed genus of fragrant herbs, including the peppermint, spearmint, etc. The plants have small flowers, usually arranged in dense axillary clusters. 
A wise and faithful counselor or monitor. 
The front median plate of the labium in insects. See Labium. 
The details of a banquet; a bill of fare. 
See Amenuse. [Obs.] 
See 6th and 7th Mew. 
Market; trade. [Obs.] Bp. Sprat. 
To subject to fine or amercement; to mulct; to amerce. [Obs.] 
Originally, a dealer in any kind of goods or wares; now restricted to a dealer in textile fabrics, as silks or woolens. [Eng.] 
Ordure; dung. [Obs.] Burton. 
A pool or lake. Drayton. Tennyson. 
A boundary. Bacon. 
To divide, limit, or bound. [Obs.] Which meared her rule with Africa. Spenser. 
A mare. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Tissue composed of spheroidal cells. 
To cause to be swallowed up; to immerse; to sink; to absorb. To merge all natural ... sentiment in inordinate vanity. Burke. Whig and Tory were merged and swallowed up in the transcendent duties of patriots. De Quincey. 
To be sunk, swallowed up, or lost. Native irresolution had merged in stronger motives. I. Taylor. 
An absorption of one estate, or one contract, in another, or of a minor offense in a greater. 
A permanent colony of cells or plastids which may remain isolated, like Rotifer, or may multiply by gemmation to form higher aggregates, termed zoides. Perrier. 
A boy's play, called also fivepenny morris. See Morris. 
A breed of sheep originally from Spain, noted for the fineness of its wool. 
To acquire desert; to gain value; to receive benefit; to profit. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
An old Scotch silver coin; a mark or marc. [Scot.] 
A mark; a sign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Murky. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
Originally, a wig; afterwards, a mop for cleaning cannon. 
A small European falcon (Falco lithofalco, or F. æsalon). 
One of the solid parts of a battlemented parapet; a battlement. See Illust. of Battlement. 
The male corresponding to mermaid; a sea man, or man fish. 
The plain surface between the channels of a triglyph. [Written also merus.] Weale. 
The proximal segment of the hind limb; the thigh. 
See Jack, 8 (c). 
A kind of wild red cherry. 
See Meros. 
A high tableland; a plateau on a hill. [Southwestern U.S.] Bartlett. 
Same as Mesiad. 
Same as Mesial. 
A distilled liquor prepared in Mexico from a species of agave. See Agave. 
A leper. [Obs.] 
The engagement of the teeth of wheels, or of a wheel and rack. Mesh stick, a stick on which the mesh is formed in netting. 
To catch in a mesh. Surrey. 
To engage with each other, as the teeth of wheels. 
Mashed; brewed. [Obs.] Shak. 
Formed with meshes; netted. 
Toward, or on the side toward, the mesial plane; mesially; -- opposed to laterad. 
Middle; median; in, or in the region of, the mesial plane; internal; -- opposed to lateral. Mesial plane. (Anat.) See Meson. 
See Maslin. 
Middle; intervening; as, a mesne lord, that is, a lord who holds land of a superior, but grants a part of it to another person, in which case he is a tenant to the superior, but lord or superior to the second grantee, and hence is called the mesne lord. Mesne process, intermediate process; process intervening between the beginning and end of a suit, sometimes understood to be the whole process preceding the execution. Blackstone. Burrill. -- Mesne profits, profits of premises during the time the owner has been wrongfully kept out of the possession of his estate. Burrill. 
Same as Thomsonite. 
The mesial plane dividing the body of an animal into similar right and left halves. The line in which it meets the dorsal surface has been called the dorsimeson, and the corresponding ventral edge the ventrimeson. B. G. Wilder. 
Mass; church service. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A disagreeable mixture or confusion of things; hence, a situation resulting from blundering or from misunderstanding; as, he made a mess of it. [Colloq.] 
To take meals with a mess; to belong to a mess; to eat (with others); as, I mess with the wardroom officers. Marryat. 
To supply with a mess. 
A dog. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Most. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The offspring of a white person and a quadroon; -- so called in the West Indies. [Written also mustee.] 
See Mister, a trade. 
of Meet. 
of Mete, to measure. Chapman. 
of Mete, to dream. Chaucer. 
The change of form which one animal species undergoes in a series of successively produced individuals, extending from the one developed from the ovum to the final perfected individual. Hence, metagenesis involves the production of sexual individuals by nonsexual means, either directly or through intervening sexless generations. Opposed to monogenesis. See Alternate generation, under Generation. 
An elementary substance, as sodium, calcium, or copper, whose oxide or hydroxide has basic rather than acid properties, as contrasted with the nonmetals, or metalloids. No sharp line can be drawn between the metals and nonmetals, and certain elements partake of both acid and basic qualities, as chromium, manganese, bismuth, etc. 
To cover with metal; as, to metal a ship's bottom; to metal a road. 
A flat or somewhat hollowed stone upon which grain or other food is ground, by means of a smaller stone or pestle. [Southwestern U. S. & Sp. Amer.] 
Meat. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To meet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To dream; also impersonally; as, me mette, I dreamed. [Obs.] "I mette of him all night." Chaucer. 
To find the quantity, dimensions, or capacity of, by any rule or standard; to measure. 
To measure. [Obs.] Mark iv. 24. 
Measure; limit; boundary; -- used chiefly in the plural, and in the phrase metes and bounds. 
According to measure or proportion; proportionable; proportionate. [Obs.] 
Meteoric. 
A line above or below a hanging net, to which the net is attached in order to strengthen it. 
See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A white waxy substance, found in small quantities in spermaceti as an ethereal salt of several fatty acids, and regarded as an alcohol of the methane series. 
Classification; a mode or system of classifying natural objects according to certain common characteristics; as, the method of Theophrastus; the method of Ray; the Linnæan method. 
The technical name of methyl alcohol or wood spirit; also, by extension, the class name of any of the series of alcohols of the methane series of which methol proper is the type. See Methyl alcohol, under Methyl. 
A hydrocarbon radical, CH3, not existing alone but regarded as an essential residue of methane, and appearing as a component part of many derivatives; as, methyl alcohol, methyl ether, methyl amine, etc. [Formerly written also methule, methyle, etc.] Methyl alcohol (Chem.), a light, volatile, inflammable liquid, CH3.OH, obtained by the distillation of wood, and hence called wood spirit; -- called also methol, carbinol, etc. -- Methyl amine (Chem.), a colorless, inflammable, alkaline gas, CH3.NH2, having an ammoniacal, fishy odor. It is produced artificially, and also occurs naturally in herring brine and other fishy products. It is regarded as ammonia in which a third of its hydrogen is replaced by methyl, and is a type of the class of substituted ammonias. -- Methyl ether (Chem.), a light, volatile ether CH3.O.CH3, obtained by the etherification of methyl alcohol; -- called also methyl oxide. -- Methyl green. (Chem.) See under Green, n. -- Methyl orange. (Chem.) See Helianthin. -- Methyl violet (Chem.), an artificial dye, consisting of certain methyl halogen derivatives of rosaniline. 
A sojourner; an immigrant; an alien resident in a Grecian city, but not a citizen. Mitford. The whole force of Athens, metics as well as citizens, and all the strangers who were then in the city. Jowett (Thucyd. ). 
Calling; vocation; business; trade. 
A whitish soluble powder used as a developer in photography. Chemically, it is the sulphate of methyl-p-amino-m-cresol. 
The space between two triglyphs of the Doric frieze, which, among the ancients, was often adorned with carved work. See Illust. of Entablature. 
See Meter. 
In a metrical manner. 
of Mete, to dream. Chaucer. 
Substance or quality of temperament; spirit, esp. as regards honor, courage, fortitude, ardor, etc.; disposition; -- usually in a good sense. A certain critical hour which shall... try what mettle his heart is made of. South. Gentlemen of brave mettle. Shak. The winged courser, like a generous horse, Shows most true mettle when you check his course. Pope. To put one one's mettle, to cause or incite one to use one's best efforts. 
Lit., mine; that which is mine; -- used in the phrase meum et tuum, or meum and tuum; as, to confound meum and tuum, to fail to distinguish one's own property from that of others; to be dishonest. 
A cage for hawks; a mew. See 4th Mew, 1. Milman. 
To move. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A gull, esp. the common British species (Larus canus); called also sea mew, maa, mar, mow, and cobb. 
To shed or cast; to change; to molt; as, the hawk mewed his feathers. Nine times the moon had mewed her horns. Dryden. 
To cast the feathers; to molt; hence, to change; to put on a new appearance. Now everything doth mew, And shifts his rustic winter robe. Turbervile. 
To shut up; to inclose; to confine, as in a cage or other inclosure. More pity that the eagle should be mewed. Shak. Close mewed in their sedans, for fear of air. Dryden. 
To cry as a cat. [Written also meaw, meow.] Shak. 
The common cry of a cat. Shak. 
To cry, as a young child; to squall. [Written also meawl.] Shak. 
One that mewls. 
An alley where there are stables; a narrow passage; a confined place. [Eng.] Mr. Turveydrop's great room... was built out into a mews at the back. Dickens. 
Same as Meine. 
Same as Mescal. 
Mean; not extreme. 
A unit of conductivity, being the reciprocal of the ohm. 
See Mohr. 
A tribe of Indians that formerly occupied the country between the Wabash and Maumee rivers. 
The orang-outang. 
Miasma. 
Infectious particles or germs floating in the air; air made noxious by the presence of such particles or germs; noxious effluvia; malaria. 
To cry as a cat; to mew; to caterwaul. Sir W. Scott. 
The crying of a cat. 
The name of a group of minerals characterized by highly perfect cleavage, so that they readily separate into very thin leaves, more or less elastic. They differ widely in composition, and vary in color from pale brown or yellow to green or black. The transparent forms are used in lanterns, the doors of stoves, etc., being popularly called isinglass. Formerly called also cat-silver, and glimmer. 
pl of Mouse. 
One who skulks, or keeps out of sight; hence, a truant; an idler; a thief, etc. [Obs.] Shak. 
Much; great. [Written also muckle and mockle.] [Old Eng. & Scot.] "A man of mickle might." Spenser. 
A small South American monkey (Mico melanurus), allied to the marmoset. The name was originally applied to an albino variety. 
A measure of length; the thousandth part of one millimeter; the millionth part of a meter. 
Made with a somewhat elevated position of some certain part of the tongue, in relation to the palate; midway between the high and the low; -- said of certain vowel sounds; as, a (ale), ê (êll), o (old). See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 10, 11. 
Middle. [Obs.] About the mid of night come to my tent. Shak. 
See Amid. 
The larva of the bean fly. 
A genus of longeared South American monkeys, including numerous species of marmosets. See Marmoset. 
The middle part of the day; noon. 
Of or pertaining to noon; meridional; as, the midday sun. 
The common European crow. [Prov. Eng.] 
The point or part equally distant from the extremities or exterior limits, as of a line, a surface, or a solid; an intervening point or part in space, time, or order of series; the midst; central portion; specif., the waist. Chaucer. "The middle of the land." Judg. ix. 37. In this, as in most questions of state, there is a middle. Burke. 
A colloquial abbreviation of midshipman. 
A minute bloodsucking fly. [Local, U. S.] 
The middle part of the alimentary canal from the stomach, or entrance of the bile duct, to, or including, the large intestine. 
A continuation of the petiole, extending from the base to the apex of the lamina of a leaf. 
In the midst of; amidst. Shak. 
In the middle. [R.] Milton. 
The middle of the way or distance; a middle way or course. Shak. Paths indirect, or in the midway faint. Milton. 
Being in the middle of the way or distance; as, the midway air. Shak. 
In the middle of the way or distance; half way. "She met his glance midway." Dryden. 
Aspect; air; manner; demeanor; carriage; bearing. Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As, to be hated, needs but to be seen. Pope. 
A petty falling out; a tiff; a quarrel; offense. Fielding. 
To offend slightly. [Colloq.] 
imp. of May. Etym: [AS. meahte, mihte.] 
Force or power of any kind, whether of body or mind; energy or intensity of purpose, feeling, or action; means or resources to effect an object; strength; force; power; ability; capacity. What so strong, But wanting rest, will also want of might Spenser. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. Deut. vi. 5. With might and main. See under 2d Main. 
A warrior of great force and courage. [R. & Obs.] 1 Chron. xi. 12. 
In a great degree; very. [Colloq.] "He was mighty methodical." Jeffrey. We have a mighty pleasant garden. Doddridge. 
See 3d Minion. 
To flatter. [R. & Obs.] Danie 
The popular designation of the hereditary sovereign of Japan. 
Lit., my lady; hence (as used on the Continent), an English noblewoman or gentlewoman. 
Same as Mileage. 
Gentle; pleasant; kind; soft; bland; clement; hence, moderate in degree or quality; -- the opposite of harsh, severe, irritating, violent, disagreeable, etc.; -- applied to persons and things; as, a mild disposition; a mild eye; a mild air; a mild medicine; a mild insanity. The rosy morn resigns her light And milder glory to the noon. Waller. Adore him as a mild and merciful Being. Rogers. Mild, or Low, steel, steel that has but little carbon in it and is not readily hardened. 
To make mild, or milder. Lowell. 
A growth of minute powdery or webby fungi, whitish or of different colors, found on various diseased or decaying substances. 
To taint with mildew. He... mildews the white wheat. Shak. 
To become tainted with mildew. 
In a mild manner. 
A certain measure of distance, being equivalent in England and the United States to 320 poles or rods, or 5,280 feet. 
Militia. [Obs.] 
Environment. 
A white fluid secreted by the mammary glands of female mammals for the nourishment of their young, consisting of minute globules of fat suspended in a solution of casein, albumin, milk sugar, and inorganic salts. "White as morne milk." Chaucer. 
To draw or to yield milk. 
Consisting of milk. [Obs.] 
Full of milk; abounding with food. [R.] "Milkful vales." Sylvester. 
A money of account of the United States, having the value of the tenth of a cent, or the thousandth of a dollar. 
A hardened steel roller having a design in relief, used for imprinting a reversed copy of the design in a softer metal, as copper. 
To swim under water; -- said of air-breathing creatures. 
Having been subjected to some process of milling. Milled cloth, cloth that has been beaten in a fulling mill. -- Milled lead, lead rolled into sheets. 
A believer in the doctrine of William Miller (d. 1849), who taught that the end of the world and the second coming of Christ were at hand. 
The name of several cereal and forage grasses which bear an abundance of small roundish grains. The common millets of Germany and Southern Europe are Panicum miliaceum, and Setaria Italica. 
Lit., my lord; hence (as used on the Continent), an English nobleman or gentleman. 
The spleen. 
To impregnate (the roe of a fish) with milt. 
A male fish. 
A genus of raptorial birds, including the European kite. 
To mimic. [Obs.] -- Mim"er, n. 
One who imitates or mimics, especially one who does so for sport; a copyist; a buffoon. Burke. 
To assume a resemblance to (some other organism of a totally different nature, or some surrounding object), as a means of protection or advantage. 
A genus of leguminous plants, containing many species, and including the sensitive plants (Mimosa sensitiva, and M. pudica). 
An ancient weight or denomination of money, of varying value. The Attic mina was valued at a hundred drachmas. 
See Myna. 
Same as Manul. 
A short, precise step; an affected manner. 
One who minces. 
To give attention or heed; to obey; as, the dog minds well. 
Disposed; inclined; having a mind. Joseph... was minded to put her away privily. Matt. i. 19. If men were minded to live virtuously. Tillotson. 
Bearing in mind; regardful; attentive; heedful; observant. What is man, that thou art mindful of him Ps. viii. 4. I promise you to be mindful of your admonitions. Hammond. -- Mind"ful*ly, adv. -- Mind"ful*ness, n. 
See Mien. [Obs.] 
Belonging to me; my. Used as a pronominal to me; my. Used as a pronominal adjective in the predicate; as, "Vengeance is mine; I will repay." Rom. xii. 19. Also, in the old style, used attributively, instead of my, before a noun beginning with a vowel. I kept myself from mine iniquity. Ps. xviii. 23. 
One versed in minerals; mineralogist. [R.] 
To mingle; to mix. [Obs.] 
A small biting fly; a midge. [Local, U. S.] 
To become mixed or blended. 
A mixture. [Obs.] Dryden. 
Small; diminutive. Shak. 
A small fish; a minnow. [Prov. Eng.] 
Minute. "Minim forms." J. R. Drake. 
The act or business of making mines or of working them. 
Of or pertaining to mines; as, mining engineer; mining machinery; a mining region. Mining engineering. See the Note under Engineering. 
Minimum. [Obs.] Burton. 
A small kind of type, in size between brevier and nonpareil. This line is printed in minion type. 
Fine; trim; dainty. [Obs.] "Their... minion dancing." Fryth. 
To diminish; to lessen. The living of poor men thereby minished. Latimer. 
A heavy, brilliant red pigment, consisting of an oxide of lead, Pb3O4, obtained by exposing lead or massicot to a gentle and continued heat in the air. It is used as a cement, as a paint, and in the manufacture of flint glass. Called also red lead. 
A carnivorous mammal of the genus Putorius, allied to the weasel. The European mink is Putorius lutreola. The common American mink (P. vison) varies from yellowish brown to black. Its fur is highly valued. Called also minx, nurik, and vison. 
A small European fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Phoxinus lævis, formerly Leuciscus phoxinus); sometimes applied also to the young of larger kinds; -- called also minim and minny. The name is also applied to several allied American species, of the genera Phoxinus, Notropis, or Minnilus, and Rhinichthys. 
A minnow. 
Less by a semitone in interval or difference of pitch; as, a minor third. Asia Minor (Geog.), the Lesser Asia; that part of Asia which lies between the Euxine, or Black Sea, on the north, and the Mediterranean on the south. -- Minor mode (Mus.), that mode, or scale, in which the third and sixth are minor, -- much used for mournful and solemn subjects. -- Minor orders (Eccl.), the rank of persons employed in ecclesiastical offices who are not in holy orders, as doorkeepers, acolytes, etc. -- Minor scale (Mus.) The form of the minor scale is various. The strictly correct form has the third and sixth minor, with a semitone between the seventh and eighth, which involves an augmented second interval, or three semitones, between the sixth and seventh, as, 6/F, 7/G#, 8/A. But, for melodic purposes, both the sixth and the seventh are sometimes made major in the ascending, and minor in the descending, scale, thus: --See Major. -- Minor term of syllogism (Logic), the subject of the conclusion. 
The minor term, that is, the subject of the conclusion; also, the minor premise, that is, that premise which contains the minor term; in hypothetical syllogisms, the categorical premise. It is the second proposition of a regular syllogism, as in the following: Every act of injustice partakes of meanness; to take money from another by gaming is an act of injustice; therefore, the taking of money from another by gaming partakes of meanness. 
A king and lawgiver of Crete, fabled to be the son of Jupiter and Europa. After death he was made a judge in the Lower Regions. 
See Minnow. 
The name of several aromatic labiate plants, mostly of the genus Mentha, yielding odoriferous essential oils by distillation. See Mentha. 
One who mints. 
A tune or air to regulate the movements of the dance so called; a movement in suites, sonatas, symphonies, etc., having the dance form, and commonly in 3-4, sometimes 3-8, measure. 
A minim. 
Less; requiring to be subtracted; negative; as, a minus quantity. Minus sign (Math.), the sign [-] denoting minus, or less, prefixed to negative quantities, or quantities to be subtracted. See Negative sign, under Negative. 
A fixed part of a module. See Module. 
Of or pertaining to a minute or minutes; occurring at or marking successive minutes. Minute bell, a bell tolled at intervals of a minute, as to give notice of a death or a funeral. -- Minute book, a book in which written minutes are entered. -- Minute glass, a glass measuring a minute or minutes by the running of sand. -- Minute gun, a discharge of a cannon repeated every minute as a sign of distress or mourning. -- Minute hand, the long hand of a watch or clock, which makes the circuit of the dial in an hour, and marks the minutes. 
To set down a short sketch or note of; to jot down; to make a minute or a brief summary of. The Empress of Russia, with her own hand, minuted an edict for universal tolerance. Bancroft. 
In a minute manner; with minuteness; exactly; nicely. 
The mink; -- called also minx otter. [Obs.] 
Abounding with mines; like a mine. "Miny caverns." Thomson. 
A quorum, or number necessary, for conducting public worship. 
A Russian village community. D. M. Wallace. 
Same as Emir. 
A remarkable variable star in the constellation Cetus (o Ceti). 
An optical effect, sometimes seen on the ocean, but more frequently in deserts, due to total reflection of light at the surface common to two strata of air differently heated. The reflected image is seen, commonly in an inverted position, while the real object may or may not be in sight. When the surface is horizontal, and below the eye, the appearance is that of a sheet of water in which the object is seen reflected; when the reflecting surface is above the eye, the image is seen projected against the sky. The fata Morgana and looming are species of mirage. By the mirage uplifted the land floats vague in the ether, Ships and the shadows of ships hang in the motionless air. Longfellow. 
An ant. [Obs.] See Pismire. 
Deep mud; wet, spongy earth. Chaucer. He his rider from the lofty steed Would have cast down and trod in dirty mire. Spenser. Mire crow (Zoöl.), the pewit, or laughing gull. [Prov. Eng.] -- Mire drum, the European bittern. [Prov. Eng.] 
To stick in mire. Shak. 
Dark; gloomy; murky. Spenser. Mrs. Browning. 
Darkness; gloom; murk. "In mirk and mire." Longfellow. 
Dark; gloomy. See Murky. 
See Speculum. Mirror carp (Zoöl.), a domesticated variety of the carp, having only three or fur rows of very large scales side. -- Mirror plate. (a) A flat glass mirror without a frame. (b) Flat glass used for making mirrors. -- Mirror writing, a manner or form of backward writing, making manuscript resembling in slant and order of letters the reflection of ordinary writing in a mirror. The substitution of this manner of writing for the common manner is a symptom of some kinds of nervous disease. 
To reflect, as in a mirror. 
Without mirth. -- Mirth"less*ness, n. 
Abounding with deep mud; full of mire; muddy; as, a miry road. 
The common title of honor in Persia, prefixed to the surname of an individual. When appended to the surname, it signifies Prince. 
Wrong; amiss. [Obs.] "To correcten that [which] is mis." Chaucer. 
A false stroke with a billiard cue, the cue slipping from the ball struck without impelling it as desired. 
To do wrong; to commit a fault. I have misdone, and I endure the smart. Dryden. 
The issue in a writ of right. 
A miserable person. [Obs.] Sterne. 
Want of esteem; disrespect. Johnson. 
To make in an ill form. Spenser. 
To get wrongfully. [Obs.] 
See Misgye. [Obs.] 
To go astray. Spenser. 
To misguide. [Obs.] 
Evil accident; ill luck; misfortune; mischance. Chaucer. Secure from worldly chances and mishaps. Shak. 
To happen unluckily; -- used impersonally. [Obs.] "If that me mishap." Chaucer. 
A collection or digest of Jewish traditions and explanations of Scripture, forming the text of the Talmud. [Written also Mischna.] 
Not to know. [Obs.] 
A little bagpipe. [Obs.] Drayton. 
One who mislays. 
To rain in very fine drops, like a thick mist; to mizzle. 
A fine rain; a thick mist; mizzle. 
of Mislead. 
See Maslin. 
See Maslin. 
Raining in very small drops. 
To dissatisfy. [Obs.] 
In the game of three-card loo, an extra hand, dealt on the table, which may be substituted for the hand dealt to a player. 
The service or sacrifice of the Mass. 
The book containing the service of the Mass for the entire year; a Mass book. 
Of or pertaining to the Mass, or to a missal or Mass book. Bp. Hall. 
To speak ill. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Mistletoe. [Obs.] Missel bird, Missel thrush (Zoöl.), a large European thrush (Turdus viscivorus) which feeds on the berries of the mistletoe; -- called also mistletoe thrush and missel. 
To set pr place wrongly. 
A mistress; a wife; -- so used by the illiterate. G. Eliot. 
To sit badly or imperfectly upon; to misbecome. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Misy. 
An affectionate, or contemptuous, form of miss; a young girl; a miss. -- a. 
To cloud; to cover with mist; to dim. Shak. 
To rain in very fine drops; as, it mists. 
A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a man or youth. It is usually written in the abbreviated form Mr. To call your name, inquire your where, Or whet you think of Mister Some-one's book, Or Mister Other's marriage or decease. Mrs. Browning. 
To address or mention by the title Mr.; as, he mistered me in a formal way. [Colloq.] 
To be needful or of use. [Obs.] As for my name, it mistereth not to tell. Spenser. 
To fall in very fine drops, as rain. 
To misconceive; to mistake; to miscomprehend; to take in a wrong sense. 
Misuse. [Obs.] 
A wrong way. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To wed improperly. 
An impure yellow sulphate of iron; yellow copperas or copiapite. 
A minute arachnid, of the order Acarina, of which there are many species; as, the cheese mite, sugar mite, harvest mite, etc. See Acarina. 
See Mythic. 
A little one; -- used as a term of endearment. [Obs.] Skelton. 
The denser part of the protoplasm of a cell. 
Pertaining to a miter; resembling a miter; as, the mitral valve between the left auricle and left ventricle of the heart. 
See Miter. 
A mitten; also, a covering for the wrist and hand and not for the fingers. 
Covered with a mitten or mittens. "Mittened hands." Whittier. 
The stormy petrel. [Prov. Eng.] 
A South American curassow of the genus Mitua. 
Having, or abounding with, mites. 
Capable of being mixed. 
Formed by mixing; united; mingled; blended. See Mix, v. t. & i. Mixed action (Law), a suit combining the properties of a real and a personal action. -- Mixed angle, a mixtilineal angle. -- Mixed fabric, a textile fabric composed of two or more kinds of fiber, as a poplin. -- Mixed marriage, a marriage between persons of different races or religions; specifically, one between a Roman Catholic and a Protestant. -- Mixed number, a whole number and a fraction taken together. -- Mixed train, a railway train containing both passenger and freight cars. -- Mixed voices (Mus.), voices of both males and females united in the same performance. 
A compost heap; a dunghill. Chaucer. Tennyson. 
One who, or that which, mixes. 
With mixture; in a mixed manner; mixedly. Bacon. 
Hindmost; nearest the stern; as, the mizzen shrouds, sails, etc. 
The hindmost of the fore and aft sails of a three-masted vessel; also, the spanker. 
Mist; fine rain. 
A bog or quagmire. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
Any one of several very large extinct species of wingless birds belonging to Dinornis, and other related genera, of the suborder Dinornithes, found in New Zealand. They are allied to the apteryx and the ostrich. They were probably exterminated by the natives before New Zealand was discovered by Europeans. Some species were much larger than the ostrich. 
Full of moaning; expressing sorrow. -- Moan"ful*ly, adv. 
A deep trench around the rampart of a castle or other fortified place, sometimes filled with water; a ditch. 
To surround with a moat. Dryden. 
To void the excrement, as a bird; to mute. [Obs.] 
A mobcap. Goldsmith. 
To wrap up in, or cover with, a cowl. [R.] 
To crowd about, as a mob, and attack or annoy; as, to mob a house or a person. 
A plain cap or headdress for women or girls; especially, one tying under the chin by a very broad band, generally of the same material as the cap itself. Thackeray. 
Capable of being moved, aroused, or excited; capable of spontaneous movement. 
The mob; the populace. [Obs.] "The unthinking mobile." South. 
To wrap the head of in a hood. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Moebles. [Obs.] 
A bale of raw silk. 
Much. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Much. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To make sport contempt or in jest; to speak in a scornful or jeering manner. When thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed Job xi. 3. She had mocked at his proposal. Froude. 
Imitating reality, but not real; false; counterfeit; assumed; sham. That superior greatness and mock majesty. Spectator. Mock bishop's weed (Bot.), a genus of slender umbelliferous herbs (Discopleura) growing in wet places. -- Mock heroic, burlesquing the heroic; as, a mock heroic poem. -- Mock lead. See Blende (a). -- Mock nightingale (Zoöl.), the European blackcap. -- Mock orange (Bot.), a genus of American and Asiatic shrubs (Philadelphus), with showy white flowers in panicled cymes. P. coronarius, from Asia, has fragrant flowers; the American kinds are nearly scentless. -- Mock sun. See Parhelion. -- Mock turtle soup, a soup made of calf's head, veal, or other meat, and condiments, in imitation of green turtle soup. -- Mock velvet, a fabric made in imitation of velvet. See Mockado. 
A mocking bird. Mocker nut (Bot.), a kind of hickory (Carya tomentosa) and its fruit, which is far inferior to the true shagbark hickory nut. 
See Mickle. 
A South American rodent (Cavia rupestris), allied to the Guinea pig, but larger; -- called also rock cavy. 
Indicating, or pertaining to, some mode of conceiving existence, or of expressing thought. 
Any combination of qualities or relations, considered apart from the substance to which they belong, and treated as entities; more generally, condition, or state of being; manner or form of arrangement or manifestation; form, as opposed to matter. Modes I call such complex ideas, which, however compounded, contain not in them the supposition of subsisting by themselves, but are considered as dependencies on, or affections of, substances. Locke. 
Suitable to be taken as a model or pattern; as, a model house; a model husband. 
To plan or form after a pattern; to form in model; to form a model or pattern for; to shape; to mold; to fashion; as, to model a house or a government; to model an edifice according to the plan delineated. 
To make a copy or a pattern; to design or imitate forms; as, to model in wax. 
A certain crimsonlike color. Good. 
To moderate. [Obs.] 
A person of modern times; -- opposed to ancient. Pope. 
In a modest manner. 
The enriched block or horizontal bracket generally found under the cornice of the Corinthian and Composite entablature, and sometimes, less ornamented, in the Ionic and other orders; -- so called because of its arrangement at regulated distances. 
According to the mode, or customary manner; conformed to the fashion; fashionable; hence, conventional; as, a modish dress; a modish feast. Dryden. "Modish forms of address." Barrow. -- Mod"ish*ly, adv. -- Mod"ish*ness, n. 
One who follows the fashion. 
A dry measure, containing about a peck. 
A tribe of warlike Indians formerly inhabiting Northern California. They are nearly extinct. 
The size of some one part, as the diameter of semi-diameter of the base of a shaft, taken as a unit of measure by which the proportions of the other parts of the composition are regulated. Generally, for columns, the semi-diameter is taken, and divided into a certain number of parts, called minutes (see Minute), though often the diameter is taken, and any dimension is said to be so many modules and minutes in height, breadth, or projection. 
To model; also, to modulate. [Obs.] Sandys. Drayton. 
A qualification involving the idea of variation or departure from some general rule or form, in the way of either restriction or enlargement, according to the circumstances of the case, as in the will of a donor, an agreement between parties, and the like. Bracton. 
Fashionable. [R.] 
A wry face or mouth; a mow. [Obs.] 
To make faces; to mow. [Obs.] 
More. See Mo. [Obs.] "Sing no more ditties, sing no moe." Shak. 
To move. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A thin silk stuff made in Caucasia. 
To move away; to go off. [Prov. Eng. or Local, U. S.] 
A closely fitting knit sleeve; also, a legging of knitted material. [Scot.] 
A heavy locomotive for freight traffic, having three pairs of connected driving wheels and a two-wheeled truck. Great, or Grand, Mogul, the sovereign of the empire founded in Hindostan by the Mongols under Baber in the sixteenth century. Hence, a very important personage; a lord; -- sometimes only mogul. Dryden. 
A kind of millet (Setaria Italica); German millet. 
The long silky hair or wool of the Angora goat of Asia Minor; also, a fabric made from this material, or an imitation of such fabric. 
One of a tribe of Indians who formed part of the Five Nations. They formerly inhabited the valley of the Mohawk River. 
A gallinule (Notornis Mantelli) formerly inhabiting New Zealand, but now supposed to be extinct. It was incapable of flight. See Notornis. 
See Mohawk. 
See Maholi. 
A West African gazelle (Gazella mohr), having horns on which are eleven or twelve very prominent rings. It is one of the species which produce bezoar. [Written also mhorr.] 
A British Indian gold coin, of the value of fifteen silver rupees, or $7.21. Malcom. 
To toil. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To daub; to make dirty; to soil; to defile. Thou ... doest thy mind in dirty pleasures moil. Spenser. 
To soil one's self with severe labor; to work with painful effort; to labor; to toil; to drudge. Moil not too much under ground. Bacon. Now he must moil and drudge for one he loathes. Dryden. 
A spot; a defilement. The moil of death upon them. Mrs. Browning. 
A kind of high shoe anciently worn. [Written also moyle.] 
The deity who assigns to every man his lot. 
A crystalline or frosted appearance produced by some acids on tin plate; also, the tin plate thus treated. 
To moisten. [Obs.] Shak. 
Moist. [Obs.] 
A donkey. [Cant] Thackeray. 
A mesh of a net, or of anything resembling a net. Halliwell. 
Misty; dark; murky; muggy. [Obs.] 
See Sunfish, 1. 
Of or pertaining to a mass of matter; -- said of the properties or motions of masses, as distinguished from those of molecules or atoms. Carpenter. 
Having power to grind; grinding; as, the molar teeth; also, of or pertaining to the molar teeth. Bacon. 
Any one of the teeth back of the incisors and canines. The molar which replace the deciduous or milk teeth are designated as premolars, and those which are not preceded by deciduous teeth are sometimes called true molars. See Tooth. 
Same as 2d Molar. 
A spot; a blemish; a mole. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A mass of fleshy or other more or less solid matter generated in the uterus. 
A mound or massive work formed of masonry or large stones, etc., laid in the sea, often extended either in a right line or an arc of a circle before a port which it serves to defend from the violence of the waves, thus protecting ships in a harbor; also, sometimes, the harbor itself. Brande & C. 
Any insectivore of the family Talpidæ. They have minute eyes and ears, soft fur, and very large and strong fore feet. 
The sunfish (Orthagoriscus, or Mola). [Written also molebat.] 
The fire god of the Ammonites, to whom human sacrifices were offered; Moloch. Lev. xviii. 21. 
To trouble; to disturb; to render uneasy; to interfere with; to vex. They have molested the church with needless opposition. Hooker. 
Molestation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The crossed iron that supports the upper millstone by resting on the spindle; a millrind. Cross moline (Her.), a cross each arm of which is divided at the end into two rounded branches or divisions. 
Minor; in the minor mode; as, A moll, that is, A minor. 
One of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkish title of respect for a religious and learned man. [Written also moolah.] 
Lower by a semitone; flat; as, E molle, that is, E flat. 
Same as Mollemoke. 
A pet or colloquial name for Mary. Molly cottontail. (Zoöl.) See Cottontail. -- Molly Maguire (ma*gwir"); pl. Molly Maguires (-gwirz). (a) A member of a secret association formed among the tenantry in Ireland about 1843, principally for the purpose of intimidating law officers and preventing the service of legal writs. Its members disguised themselves in the dress of women. (b) A member of a similar association of Irishmen organized in the anthracite coal region of Pennsylvania, about 1854, for the purpose of intimidating employers and officers of the law, and for avenging themselves by murder on persons obnoxious to them. The society was broken up by criminal prosecutions in 1876. 
The fire god of the Ammonites in Canaan, to whom human sacrifices were offered; Molech. Also applied figuratively. 
of Melt. Chaucer. Spenser. 
Much; very; as, molto adagio, very slow. 
A kind of garlic (Allium Moly) with large yellow flowers; -- called also golden garlic. 
A dull, silent person; a blockhead. [Obs.] Spenser. 
An infinitesimal change in a varying quantity; an increment or decrement. [Obs.] 
A name given in contempt to strict Calvinists in Switzerland, France, and some parts of Germany, in the early part of the 19th century. 
See Motmot. 
The god of mockery and censure. 
A small, handsome, long-tailed West American monkey (Cercopithecus mona). The body is dark olive, with a spot of white on the haunches. 
The elementary and indestructible units which were conceived of as endowed with the power to produce all the changes they undergo, and thus determine all physical and spiritual phenomena. 
Any Asiatic pheasant of the genus Lophophorus, as the Impeyan pheasant. 
A genus of minute flagellate Infusoria of which there are many species, both free and attached. See Illust. under Monad. 
The second day of the week; the day following Sunday. 
The world; a globe as an ensign of royalty. [R.] A. Drummond. Le beau monde Etym: [F.], fashionable society. See Beau monde. -- Demi monde. See Demimonde. 
The moon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A moan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One of the Monera. 
The lowest division of rhizopods, including those which resemble the amoebas, but are destitute of a nucleus. 
To warn; to admonish; to advise. [Obs.] Wyclif (2 Cor. v. 20). 
A month. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To supply with money. [Obs.] 
To deal in; to make merchandise of; to traffic in; -- used chiefly of discreditable traffic. 
One of the Mongols. -- a. 
See Moneyed. 
To admonish; to warn. See Admonish. [Archaic] Ascham. 
That doctrine which refers all phenomena to a single ultimate constituent or agent; -- the opposite of dualism. 
A believer in monism. 
A blotch or spot of ink on a printed page, caused by the ink not being properly distributed. It is distinguished from a friar, or white spot caused by a deficiency of ink. 
To act or treat as a monkey does; to ape; to act in a grotesque or meddlesome manner. To monkey with, to handle in a meddlesome manner. [Colloq.] 
Like, or suitable to, a monk. [R.] 
The black howler of Central America (Mycetes villosus). 
A species of poem of a mournful character, in which a single mourner expresses lamentation; a song for one voice. 
A monomial. 
Mountain. 
A favorite gambling game among Spaniards, played with dice or cards. 
A custom, formerly practiced by the scholars at Eton school, England, of giing every third year, on Whittuesday, to a hillock near the Bath road, and exacting money from all passers-by, to support at the university the senior scholar of the school. 
One of the twelve portions into which the year is divided; the twelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of a synodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name. In popular use, a period of four weeks is often called a month. 
A heap of ore; a mass undergoing the process of amalgamation. 
See Matross. [Obs.] 
See Mo. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To make the noise of a cow; to low; -- child's word. 
The lowing of a cow. 
Manner of conceiving and expressing action or being, as positive, possible, hypothetical, etc., without regard to other accidents, such as time, person, number, etc.; as, the indicative mood; the infinitive mood; the subjunctive mood. Same as Mode. 
Temper of mind; temporary state of the mind in regard to passion or feeling; humor; as, a melancholy mood; a suppliant mood. Till at the last aslaked was mood. Chaucer. Fortune is merry, And in this mood will give us anything. Shak. The desperate recklessness of her mood. Hawthorne. 
Mother. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The governor of a province in Egypt, etc. [Written also mudir.] 
See Mollah. 
A crescentlike outwork. See Half-moon. Moon blindness. (a) (Far.) A kind of ophthalmia liable to recur at intervals of three or four weeks. (b) (Med.) Hemeralopia. -- Moon dial, a dial used to indicate time by moonlight. -- Moon face, a round face like a full moon. -- Moon madness, lunacy. [Poetic] -- Moon month, a lunar month. -- Moon trefoil (Bot.), a shrubby species of medic (Medicago arborea). See Medic. -- Moon year, a lunar year, consisting of lunar months, being sometimes twelve and sometimes thirteen. 
To expose to the rays of the moon. If they have it to be exceeding white indeed, they seethe it yet once more, after it hath been thus sunned and mooned. Holland. 
To act if moonstruck; to wander or gaze about in an abstracted manner. Elsley was mooning down the river by himself. C. Kingsley. 
Of or resembling the moon; symbolized by the moon. "Sharpening in mooned horns." "Mooned Ashtaroth." Milton. 
One who abstractedly wanders or gazes about, as if moonstruck. [R.] Dickens. 
A little moon. [R.] Bp. Hall. 
Same as Mung. 
The European goldcrest. 
Any individual of the swarthy races of Africa or Asia which have adopted the Mohammedan religion. "In Spanish history the terms Moors, Saracens, and Arabs are synonymous." Internat. Cyc. 
To fix or secure, as a vessel, in a particular place by casting anchor, or by fastening with cables or chains; as, the vessel was moored in the stream; they moored the boat to the wharf. 
To cast anchor; to become fast. On oozy ground his galleys moor. Dryden. 
A species of cassowary (Casuarius Bennetti) found in New Britain, and noted for its agility in running and leaping. It is smaller and has stouter legs than the common cassowary. Its crest is biloted; the neck and breast are black; the back, rufous mixed with black; and the naked skin of the neck, blue. 
Of or pertaining to moors; marshy; fenny; boggy; moorish. Mortimer. As when thick mists arise from moory vales. Fairfax. 
A kind of blue cloth made in India. Balfour (Cyc of India). 
A large cervine mammal (Alces machlis, or A. Americanus), native of the Northern United States and Canada. The adult male is about as large as a horse, and has very large, palmate antlers. It closely resembles the European elk, and by many zoölogists is considered the same species. See Elk. Moose bird (Zoöl.), the Canada jayor whisky jack. See Whisky jack. -- Moose deer. Same as Moose. -- Moose yard (Zoöl.), a locality where moose, in winter, herd together in a forest to feed and for mutual protection. 
See 1st Mot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A ring for gauging wooden pins. 
To argue or plead in a supposed case. There is a difference between mooting and pleading; between fencing and fighting. B. Jonson. 
A discussion or debate; especially, a discussion of fictitious causes by way of practice. The pleading used in courts and chancery called moots. Sir T. Elyot. Moot case, a case or question to be mooted; a disputable case; an unsettled question. Dryden. -- Moot court, a mock court, such as is held by students of law for practicing the conduct of law cases. -- Moot point, a point or question to be debated; a doubtful question. 
Subject, or open, to argument or discussion; undecided; debatable; mooted. 
A disputer of a mooted case. 
A made-up face; a grimace. "What mops and mowes it makes!" Beau. & Fl. 
To make a wry mouth. [Obs.] Shak. 
To rub or wipe with a mop, or as with a mop; as, to mop a floor; to mop one's face with a handkerchief. 
To be dull and spiritless. "Moping melancholy." Milton. A sickly part of one true sense Could not so mope. Shak. 
To make spiritless and stupid. [Obs.] 
A dull, spiritless person. Burton. 
Dull; spiritless; dejected. -- Mop"ish*ly, adv. -- Mop"ish*ness, n. 
One of a class of Mohammedans in Malabar. 
A long-haired pet dog. 
A mope; a drone. [Obs.] Swift. 
A game of guessing the number of fingers extended in a quick movement of the hand, -- much played by Italians of the lower classes. 
A leguminous tree of Guiana and Trinidad (Dimorphandra excelsa); also, its timber, used in shipbuilding and making furniture. 
Delay; esp., culpable delay; postponement. 
To moralize. [Obs.] Shak. 
The moral condition, or the condition in other respects, so far as it is affected by, or dependent upon, moral considerations, such as zeal, spirit, hope, and confidence; mental state, as of a body of men, an army, and the like. 
A tract of soft, wet ground; a marsh; a fen. Morass ore. (Min.) See Bog ore, under Bog. 
A salt of moric acid. 
A muræna. 
Delicacy or softness in the representation of flesh. 
A hill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A root. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To make more; to increase. [Obs.] Gower. 
A thick woolen fabric, watered or with embossed figures; -- used in upholstery, for curtains, etc. 
An edible fungus (Morchella esculenta), the upper part of which is covered with a reticulated and pitted hymenium. It is used as food, and for flavoring sauces. [Written also moril.] 
Moorland. 
Customs; habits; esp., customs conformity to which is more or less obligatory; customary law. 
Moresque. [Obs.] 
One of a celebrated breed of American trotting horses; -- so called from the name of the stud from which the breed originated in Vermont. 
The European small-spotted dogfish, or houndfish. See the Note under Houndfish. 
A place where the bodies of persons found dead are exposed, that they may be identified, or claimed by their friends; a deadhouse. 
Idiocy; imbecility; fatuity; foolishness. 
A Moor. [Obs.] In vain the Turks and Morians armed be. Fairfax. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, fustic (see Morin); as, moric acid. 
See Morisco. 
An edible fungus. Same as 1st Morel. 
A yellow crystalline substance of acid properties extracted from fustic (Maclura tinctoria, formerly called Morus tinctoria); -- called also moric acid. 
A kind of open helmet, without visor or beaver, and somewhat resembling a hat. A battered morion on his brow. Sir W. Scott. 
A dark variety of smoky quartz. 
Same as Morisco. 
A beast that has died of disease or by mischance. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
A bad sore; a gangrene; a cancer. [Obs.] [Written also morrimal and mortmal.] Chaucer. 
A bugbear; false terror. [Obs.] Jonhson. 
One of a sect in the United States, followers of Joseph Smith, who professed to have found an addition to the Bible, engraved on golden plates, called the Book of Mormon, first published in 1830. The Mormons believe in polygamy, and their hierarchy of apostles, etc., has control of civil and religious matters. 
Of or pertaining to the Mormons; as, the Mormon religion; Mormon practices. 
The first part of the day; the morning; -- used chiefly in poetry. From morn To noun he fell, from noon to dewy eve. Milton. 
Of or pertaining to the morn; morning. [Obs.] "White as morne milk." Chaucer. 
A ring fitted upon the head of a lance to prevent wounding an adversary in titling. 
Without teeth, tongue, or claws; -- said of a lion represented heraldically. 
Pertaining to the first part or early part of the day; being in the early part of the day; as, morning dew; morning light; morning service. She looks as clear As morning roses newly washed with dew. Shak. Morning gown, a gown worn in the morning before one is dressed for the day. -- Morning gun, a gun fired at the first stroke of reveille at military posts. -- Morning sickness (Med.), nausea and vomiting, usually occurring in the morning; -- a common sign of pregnancy. -- Morning star. (a) Any one of the planets (Venus, Jupiter, Mars, or Saturn) when it precedes the sun in rising, esp. Venus. Cf. Evening star, Evening. (b) Satan. See Lucifer. Since he miscalled the morning star, Nor man nor fiend hath fallen so far. Byron. (c) A weapon consisting of a heavy ball set with spikes, either attached to a staff or suspended from one by a chain. -- Morning watch (Naut.), the watch between four A. M. and eight A. M.. 
A small abscess or tumor having a resemblance to a mulberry. Dunglison. 
A person whose intellectual development proceeds normally up to about the eighth year of age and is then arrested so that there is little or no further development. 
An inferior olive size having a woody pulp and a large clingstone pit, growing in the mountainous and high-valley districts around the city of Moron, in Spain. 
Maroon; the color of an unripe black mulberry. 
The Mohammedan tribes of the southern Philippine Islands, said to have formerly migrated from Borneo. Some of them are warlike and addicted to piracy. 
Sourly; with sullen austerity. 
Any one of numerous species of large, handsome, tropical American butterflies, of the genus Morpho. They are noted for the very brilliant metallic luster and bright colors (often blue) of the upper surface of the wings. The lower surface is usually brown or gray, with eyelike spots. 
A marine fish having a very slender, flat, transparent body. It is now generally believed to be the young of the conger eel or some allied fish. 
A round hill or point of land; hence, Morro castle, a castle on a hill. 
See Marrot. 
The walrus. See Walrus. 
A clasp for fastening garments in front. Fairholt. 
A horn or flask for holding powder, as for priming. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
A great quantity or number. [Prov. Eng.] There was a mort of merrymaking. Dickens. 
A woman; a female. [Cant] Male gypsies all, not a mort among them. B. Jonson. 
A salmon in its third year. [Prov. Eng.] 
A being subject to death; a human being; man. "Warn poor mortals left behind." Tickell. 
A short piece of ordnance, used for throwing bombs, carcasses, shells, etc., at high angles of elevation, as 45º, and even higher; - - so named from its resemblance in shape to the utensil above described. Mortar bed (Mil.), a framework of wood and iron, suitably hollowed out to receive the breech and trunnions of a mortar. -- Mortar boat or vessel (Naut.), a boat strongly built and adapted to carrying a mortar or mortars for bombarding; a bomb ketch. -- Mortar piece, a mortar. [Obs.] Shak. 
A building material made by mixing lime, cement, or plaster of Paris, with sand, water, and sometimes other materials; -- used in masonry for joining stones, bricks, etc., also for plastering, and in other ways. Mortar bed, a shallow box or receptacle in which mortar is mixed. -- Mortar board. (a) A small square board with a handle beneath, for holding mortar; a hawk. (b) A cap with a broad, projecting, square top; -- worn by students in some colleges. [Slang] 
To plaster or make fast with mortar. 
A chamber lamp or light. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The sphere or globular mass of cells (blastomeres), formed by the clevage of the ovum or egg in the first stages of its development; -- called also mulberry mass, segmentation sphere, and blastosphere. See Segmentation. 
A genus of trees, some species of which produce edible fruit; the mulberry. See Mulberry. 
See Morrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
sing. of Mores. 
A surface decoration made by inlaying in patterns small pieces of variously colored glass, stone, or other material; -- called also mosaic work. 
Of or pertaining to the style of work called mosaic; formed by uniting pieces of different colors; variegated; tessellated; also, composed of various materials or ingredients. A very beautiful mosaic pavement. Addison. Florentine mosaic. See under Florentine. -- Mosaic gold. (a) See Ormolu. -- (b) Stannic sulphide, SnS2, obtained as a yellow scaly crystalline powder, and used as a pigment in bronzing and gilding wood and metal work. It was called by the alchemists aurum musivum, or aurum mosaicum. Called also bronze powder. -- Mosaic work. See Mosaic, n. 
Of or pertaining to Moses, the leader of the Israelites, or established through his agency; as, the Mosaic law, rites, or institutions. 
See Muzzle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A large flatboat, used in the West Indies for taking freight from shore to ship. 
To go, or move (in a certain manner); -- usually with out, off, along, etc. [Colloq.]  E. N. Wescott. 
See Mosque. 
A Mussulman; an orthodox Mohammedan. [Written also muslim.] "Heaps of slaughtered Moslem." Macaulay. They piled the ground with Moslem slain. Halleck. 
Of or pertaining to the Mohammedans; Mohammedan; as, Moslem lands; the Moslem faith. 
A Mohammedan church or place of religious worship. [Written also mosk.] 
A cryptogamous plant of a cellular structure, with distinct stem and simple leaves. The fruit is a small capsule usually opening by an apical lid, and so discharging the spores. There are many species, collectively termed Musci, growing on the earth, on rocks, and trunks of trees, etc., and a few in running water. 
To cover or overgrow with moss. An oak whose boughs were mossed with age. Shak. 
In the greatest or highest degree. Those nearest to this king, and most his favorites, were courtiers and prelates. Milton. 
of Mote. Chaucer. 
For the greatest part; for the most part; chiefly; in the main. 
See Direct, n. 
May; must; might. He moot as well say one word as another Chaucer. The wordes mote be cousin to the deed. Chaucer. Men moot [i.e., one only] give silver to the poore freres. Chaucer. So mote it be, so be it; amen; -- a phrase in some rituals, as that of the Freemasons. 
Any singing bird of the genus Motacilla; a wagtail. 
See 1st Mot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The flourish sounded on a horn by a huntsman. See Mot, n., 3, and Mort. Chaucer. 
A small particle, as of floating dust; anything proverbially small; a speck. The little motes in the sun do ever stir, though there be no wind. Bacon. We are motes in the midst of generations. Landor. 
Filled with motes, or fine floating dust; as, the air. "Moted sunbeams." Tennyson. 
A composition adapted to sacred words in the elaborate polyphonic church style; an anthem. 
A mote. [Obs.] Shak. 
Any nocturnal lepidopterous insect, or any not included among the butterflies; as, the luna moth; Io moth; hawk moth. 
Full of moths. [Obs.] Fulke. 
Received by birth or from ancestors; native, natural; as, mother language; also acting the part, or having the place of a mother; producing others; originating. It is the mother falsehood from which all idolatry is derived. T. Arnold. Mother cell (Biol.), a cell which, by endogenous divisions, gives rise to other cells (daughter cells); a parent cell. -- Mother church, the original church; a church from which other churches have sprung; as, the mother church of a diocese. -- Mother country, the country of one's parents or ancestors; the country from which the people of a colony derive their origin. -- Mother liquor (Chem.), the impure or complex residual solution which remains after the salts readily or regularly crystallizing have been removed. -- Mother queen, the mother of a reigning sovereign; a queen mother. -- Mother tongue. (a) A language from which another language has had its origin. (b) The language of one's native land; native tongue. -- Mother water. See Mother liquor (above). -- Mother wit, natural or native wit or intelligence. 
To adopt as a son or daughter; to perform the duties of a mother to. The queen, to have put lady Elizabeth besides the crown, would have mothered another body's child. Howell. 
A film or membrane which is developed on the surface of fermented alcoholic liquids, such as vinegar, wine, etc., and acts as a means of conveying the oxygen of the air to the alcohol and other combustible principles of the liquid, thus leading to their oxidation. 
To become like, or full of, mother, or thick matter, as vinegar. 
Infested with moths; moth-eaten. "An old mothy saddle." Shak. 
Motive. 
Having powers of self-motion, though unconscious; as, the motile spores of certain seaweeds. 
An application made to a court or judge orally in open court. Its object is to obtain an order or rule directing some act to be done in favor of the applicant. Mozley & W. 
One who makes a motion; a mover. Udall. 
The theme or subject; a leading phrase or passage which is reproduced and varied through the course of a comor a movement; a short figure, or melodic germ, out of which a whole movement is develpoed. See also Leading motive, under Leading. [Written also motivo.] 
Causing motion; having power to move, or tending to move; as, a motive argument; motive power. "Motive faculty." Bp. Wilkins. Motive power (Mach.), a natural agent, as water, steam, wind, electricity, etc., used to impart motion to machinery; a motor; a mover. 
To prompt or incite by a motive or motives; to move. 
See Motive, n., 3, 4. 
Having a mind of a jester; foolish. Shak. 
Any one of several species of long-tailed, passerine birds of the genus Momotus, having a strong serrated beak. In most of the species the two long middle tail feathers are racket-shaped at the tip, when mature. The bird itself is said by some writers to trim them into this shape. They feed on insects, reptiles, and fruit, and are found from Mexico to Brazil. The name is derived from its note. [Written also momot.] 
Movement; manner of movement; particularly, movement with increased rapidity; -- used especially in the phrase con moto, directing to a somewhat quicker movement; as, andante con moto, a little more rapidly than andante, etc. 
A small plate covering the armpit in armor of the 14th century and later. 
A prime mover; a machine by means of which a source of power, as steam, moving water, electricity, etc., is made available for doing mechanical work. 
A clump of trees in a prairie. [Local, U.S.] 
To mark with spots of different color, or shades of color, as if stained; to spot; to maculate. 
A mottled appearance. 
A sentence, phrase, or word, forming part of an heraldic achievment. 
Full of, or consisting of, motes. [Written also mottie.] [Scot.] The motty dust reek raised by the workmen. H. Miller. 
of May. Might. 
To contract mold; to grow moldy; to mold. [Obs.] Let us not moulen thus in idleness. Chaucer. 
See Molt. 
pl. of Mow, may. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To munch. [Obs.] 
A ball or globe forming part of the regalia of an emperor or other sovereign. It is encircled with bands, enriched with precious stones, and surmounted with a cross; -- called also globe. 
An artificial hill or elevation of earth; a raised bank; an embarkment thrown up for defense; a bulwark; a rampart; also, a natural elevation appearing as if thrown up artificially; a regular and isolated hill, hillock, or knoll. To thrid the thickets or to leap the mounds. Dryden. Mound bird. (Zoöl.) Same as Mound maker (below). -- Mound builders (Ethnol.), the tribe, or tribes, of North American aborigines who built, in former times, extensive mounds of earth, esp. in the valleys of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers. Formerly they were supposed to have preceded the Indians, but later investigations go to show that they were, in general, identical with the tribes that occupied the country when discovered by Europeans. -- Mound maker (Zoöl.), any one of the megapodes. -- Shell mound, a mound of refuse shells, collected by aborigines who subsisted largely on shellfish. See Midden, and Kitchen middens. 
To fortify or inclose with a mound. 
A bank; a fund. Mount of piety. See Mont de piété. 
That upon which a person or thing is mounted, as: (a) A horse. She had so good a seat and hand, she might be trusted with any mount. G. Eliot. 
The rise of a hawk after prey. Sir P. Sidney. 
The armed or feruled end of a staff; in a sheephook, the end of the staff to which the hook is attached. Sir P. Sidney. 
Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the genus Mus and various related genera of the family Muridæ. The common house mouse (Mus musculus) is found in nearly all countries. The American white-footed, or deer, mouse (Hesperomys leucopus) sometimes lives in houses. See Dormouse, Meadow mouse, under Meadow, and Harvest mouse, under Harvest. 
To furnish with a mouse; to secure by means of a mousing. See Mouse, n., 2. 
A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Myosurus), in which the prolonged receptacle is covered with imbricating achenes, and so resembles the tail of a mouse. 
Diminutive for Mouse. Burns. 
To sport with roughly; to rumple. [Written also mouzle.] [Obs.] Wycherley. 
A frozen dessert of a frothy texture, made of sweetened and flavored whipped cream, sometimes with the addition of egg yolks and gelatin. Mousse differs from ice cream in being beaten before -- not during -- the freezing process. 
Infested with mice; smelling of mice. 
The Chinese tree peony (Pæonia Mountan), a shrub with large flowers of various colors. 
An opening affording entrance or exit; orifice; aperture; as: (a) The opening of a vessel by which it is filled or emptied, charged or discharged; as, the mouth of a jar or pitcher; the mouth of the lacteal vessels, etc. (b) The opening or entrance of any cavity, as a cave, pit, well, or den. (c) The opening of a piece of ordnance, through which it is discharged. (d) The opening through which the waters of a river or any stream are discharged. (e) The entrance into a harbor. 
One who mouths; an affected speaker. 
To transfer (a piece or man) from one space or position to another, according to the rules of the game; as, to move a king. 
To change the place of a piece in accordance with the rules of the game. 
The act of moving one of the pieces, from one position to another, in the progress of the game. 
Moving. [R.] Grew. 
That which moves anything. [R.] 
A moving picture or a moving picture show; -- commonly used in pl. [Slang or Colloq.] 
The act of changing place or posture; esp., the act of changing one's dwelling place or place of business. Moving day, a day when one moves; esp., a day when a large number of tenants change their dwelling place. 
A wry face. "Make mows at him." Shak. 
To make mouths. Nodding, becking, and mowing. Tyndale. 
Same as Mew, a gull. 
May; can. "Thou mow now escapen." [Obs.] Chaucer. Our walles mowe not make hem resistence. Chaucer. 
To cut grass, etc., with a scythe, or with a machine; to cut grass for hay. 
To lay, as hay or sheaves of grain, in a heap or mass in a barn; to pile and stow away. 
See 4th Mow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See 1st & 2d Mow. [Obs.] 
One who, or that which, mows; a mowing machine; as, a lawn mower. 
Cut down by mowing, as grass; deprived of grass by mowing; as, a mown field. 
A mower. [Obs.] 
A soft woolly mass prepared from the young leaves of Artemisia Chinensis, and used as a cautery by burning it on the skin; hence, any substance used in a like manner, as cotton impregnated with niter, amadou. 
Mud poured out from volcanoes during eruptions; -- so called in South America. 
See Moil, and Moile. 
A salt of mucic acid. 
See Muse, and Muset. 
To a great degree or extent; greatly; abundantly; far; nearly. "Much suffering heroes." Pope. Thou art much mightier than we. Gen. xxvi. 16. Excellent speech becometh not a fool, much less do lying lips a prince. Prov. xvii. 7. Henceforth I fly not death, nor would prolong Life much. Milton. All left the world much as they found it. Sir W. Temple. 
Much. [Obs.] 
Pertaining to, or derived from, gums and micilaginous substances; specif., denoting an acid obtained by the oxidation of gums, dulcite, etc., as a white crystalline substance isomeric with saccharic acid. 
Musty; moldy; slimy; mucous. -- Mu"cid*ness, n. 
See Mucedin. [Obs.] 
, abbreviation of Amuck. To run a muck. See Amuck. 
Like muck; mucky; also, used in collecting or distributing muck; as, a muck fork. 
To manure with muck. 
A term of reproach for a low or vulgar labor person. [Slang] 
To scrape together, as money, by mean labor or shifts. [Obs.] Udall. 
Much. [Obs.] 
Somewhat mucky; soft, sticky, and dirty; muxy. [Prov. Eng.] R. D. Blackmore. 
An enlargement or protrusion of the mucous membrane of the lachrymal passages, or dropsy of the lachrymal sac, dependent upon catarrhal inflammation of the latter. Dunglison. 
Resembling mucus. Dunglison. Mucoid degeneration, a form of degeneration in which the tissues are transformed into a semisolid substance resembling mucus. Quain. 
A genus of minute fungi. The plants consist of slender threads with terminal globular sporangia; mold. 
The quality or state of being mucous; sliminess. 
A minute abrupt point, as of a leaf; any small, sharp point or process, terminating a larger part or organ. 
A viscid fluid secreted by mucous membranes, which it serves to moisten and protect. It covers the lining membranes of all the cavities which open externally, such as those of the mouth, nose, lungs, intestinal canal, urinary passages, etc. 
Earth and water mixed so as to be soft and adhesive. Mud bass (Zoöl.), a fresh-water fish (Acantharchum pomotis) of the Eastern United States. It produces a deep grunting note. -- Mud bath, an immersion of the body, or some part of it, in mud charged with medicinal agents, as a remedy for disease. -- Mud boat, a large flatboat used in deredging. -- Mud cat. See Catfish. -- Mud crab (Zoöl.), any one of several American marine crabs of the genus Panopeus. -- Mud dab (Zoöl.), the winter flounder. See Flounder, and Dab. -- Mud dauber (Zoöl.), a mud wasp. -- Mud devil (Zoöl.), the fellbender. -- Mud drum (Steam Boilers), a drum beneath a boiler, into which sediment and mud in the water can settle for removal. -- Mud eel (Zoöl.), a long, slender, aquatic amphibian (Siren lacertina), found in the Southern United States. It has persistent external gills and only the anterior pair of legs. See Siren. -- Mud frog (Zoöl.), a European frog (Pelobates fuscus). -- Mud hen. (Zoöl.) (a) The American coot (Fulica Americana). (b) The clapper rail. -- Mud lark, a person who cleans sewers, or delves in mud. [Slang] - - Mud minnow (Zoöl.), any small American fresh-water fish of the genus Umbra, as U. limi. The genus is allied to the pickerels. -- Mud plug, a plug for stopping the mudhole of a boiler. -- Mud puppy (Zoöl.), the menobranchus. -- Mud scow, a heavy scow, used in dredging; a mud boat. [U.S.] -- Mud turtle, Mud tortoise (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of fresh-water tortoises of the United States. -- Mud wasp (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to Pepæus, and allied genera, which construct groups of mud cells, attached, side by side, to stones or to the woodwork of buildings, etc. The female places an egg in each cell, together with spiders or other insects, paralyzed by a sting, to serve as food for the larva. Called also mud dauber. 
Either one of two asclepiadaceous shrubs (Calotropis gigantea, and C. procera), which furnish a strong and valuable fiber. The acrid milky juice is used medicinally. 
A state of being turbid or confused; hence, intellectual cloudiness or dullness. We both grub on in a muddle. Dickens. 
Dull; stupid. 
Same as Moodir. 
To mew; to molt. [Obs.] Quarles. 
A short hollow cylinder surrounding an object, as a pipe. 
To handle awkwardly; to fumble; to fail to hold, as a ball, in catching it. 
A light, spongy, cylindrical cake, used for breakfast and tea. 
The bare end of the nose between the nostrils; -- used esp. of ruminants. 
To speak indistinctly, or without clear articulation. 
An earthenware compartment or oven, often shaped like a half cylinder, used in furnaces to protect objects heated from the direct action of the fire, as in scorification of ores, cupellation of ore buttons, etc. 
See Mouflon. 
An official expounder of Mohammedan law. 
Citizen's dress when worn by a naval or military officer; -- a term derived from the British service in India. [Colloq. Eng.] 
Sullen; displeased. [Obs.] 
The small entrails of a calf or a hog. 
An alehouse; a pothouse. Tickel. 
A genus of fishes including the gray mullets. See Mullet. 
A moor. [Scot.] Lockhart. 
A drove of mules. [Southwest. U.S.] 
Half-rotten straw, or any like substance strewn on the ground, as over the roots of plants, to protect from heat, drought, etc., and to preserve moisture. 
To cover or dress with mulch. 
Imposing a pecuniary penalty; consisting of, or paid as, a fine. Fines, or some known mulctuary punishments. Sir W. Temple. 
A hybrid animal; specifically, one generated between an ass and a mare, sometimes a horse and a she-ass. See Hinny. 
A stiff, long saw, guided at the ends but not stretched in a gate. Muley axle (Railroad), a car axle without collars at the outer ends of the journals. Forney. 
See Mulley. 
In the manner or condition of a mulier; in wedlock; legitimately. [Obs.] 
Like a mule; sullen; stubborn. -- Mul"ish*ly, adv. -- Mul"ish*ness, n. 
A thin, soft kind of muslin. 
Dirt; rubbish. [Obs.] Gower. 
To powder; to pulverize. [Prov. Eng.] 
To work (over) mentally; to cogitate; to ruminate; -- usually with over; as, to mull over a thought or a problem. [Colloq. U.S.] 
An inferior kind of madder prepared from the smaller roots or the peelings and refuse of the larger. 
Same as Mollah. 
See Mollah. 
A die, cut in intaglio, for stamping an ornament in relief, as upon metal. 
See Mullein. 
A stone or thick lump of glass, or kind of pestle, flat at the bottom, used for grinding pigments or drugs, etc., upon a slab of similar material. 
Any one of numerous fishes of the genus Mugil; -- called also gray mullets. They are found on the coasts of both continents, and are highly esteemed as food. Among the most valuable species are Mugil capito of Europe, and M. cephalus which occurs both on the European and American coasts. 
A star, usually five pointed and pierced; -- when used as a difference it indicates the third son. 
Small pinchers for curling the hair. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A fine, soft muslin; mull. 
Wine boiled and mingled with honey. 
An extract of quassia licorice, fraudulently used by brewers in order to economize malt and hops. Craig. Hard multum, a preparation made from Cocculus Indicus, etc., used to impart an intoxicating quality to beer. 
Silent; not speaking. Thackeray. The citizens are mum, and speak not a word. Shak. 
Be silent! Hush! Mum, then, and no more. Shak. 
Silence. [R.] Hudibras. 
A sort of strong beer, originally made in Brunswick, Germany. Addison. The clamorous crowd is hushed with mugs of mum. Pope. 
A talebearer. [Obs.] 
To sport or make diversion in a mask or disguise; to mask. With mumming and with masking all around. Spenser. 
One who mumms, or makes diversion in disguise; a masker; a buffon. Jugglers and dancers, antics, mummers. Milton. 
A sort of wax used in grafting, etc. 
To embalm; to mummify. 
A beggar; a begging impostor. Deceived by the tales of a Lincoln's Inn mumper. Macaulay. 
Sullenness; silent displeasure; the sulks. Skinner. 
The mouth. [Obs.] One a penny, two a penny, hot cross buns, Butter them and sugar them and put them in your muns. Old Rhyme. Halliwell. 
To chew with a grinding, crunching sound, as a beast chews provender; to chew deliberately or in large mouthfuls. [Formerly written also maunch and mounch.] I could munch your good dry oats. Shak. 
See Mun. 
Iron pyrites, or arsenical pyrites; -- so called by the Cornish miners. 
A turban ornamented with an imitation of gold or silver embroidery. 
Green gram, a kind of pulse (Phaseolus Mungo), grown for food in British India. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 
See Bonnet monkey, under Bonnet. 
A fibrous material obtained by deviling rags or the remnants of woolen goods. 
To prepare for defense; to fortify. [Obs.] 
To fortify; to strengthen. [Obs.] 
Freedom; security; immunity. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 
A tax or toll paid for building or repairing the walls of a fortified town. 
The offense of killing a human being with malice prepense or aforethought, express or implied; intentional and unlawful homicide. "Mordre will out." Chaucer. The killing of their children had, in the account of God, the guilt of murder, as the offering them to idols had the guilt of idolatry. Locke. Slaughter grows murder when it goes too far. Dryden. 
A woman who commits murder. 
A wall. [Obs.] Shak. 
To inclose in walls; to wall; to immure; to shut up. Spenser. The five kings are mured in a cave. John. x. (Heading). 
A genus of marine gastropods, having rough, and frequently spinose, shells, which are often highly colored inside; the rock shells. They abound in tropical seas. 
Bromine; -- formerly so called from its being obtained from sea water. 
Pertaining to a family of rodents (Muridæ), of which the mouse is the type. 
One of a tribe of rodents, of which the mouse is the type. 
Dark; murky. He can not see through the mantle murk. J. R. Drake. 
Darkness; mirk. [Archaic] Shak. 
The refuse of fruit, after the juice has been expressed; marc. 
Dark; obscure; gloomy. "The murkiest den." Shak. A murky deep lowering o'er our heads. Addison. 
To utter or give forth in low or indistinct words or sounds; as, to murmur tales. Shak. The people murmured such things concerning him. John vii. 32. 
A potato. [Humorous] Thackeray. 
A catarrh. [Obs.] Gascoigne. 
Any one of several species of sea birds of the genus Uria, or Catarractes; a guillemot. 
A dark red color. -- a. 
See Muræna. 
Plenty; abundance. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
One of the hereditary nobility among the Tatars, esp. one of the second class. 
A genus of small rodents, including the common mouse and rat. 
A genus of perennial, herbaceous, endogenous plants of great size, including the banana (Musa sapientum), the plantain (M. paradisiaca of Linnæus, but probably not a distinct species), the Abyssinian (M. Ensete), the Philippine Island (M. textilis, which yields Manila hemp), and about eighteen other species. See Illust. of Banana and Plantain. 
Of or pertaining to the Muses, or to Poetry. [R.] 
A small animal of Java (Paradoxirus fasciatus), allied to the civets. It swallows, but does not digest, large quantities of ripe coffee berries, thus serving to disseminate the coffee plant; hence it is called also coffee rat. 
An itinerant player on the musette, an instrument formerly common in Europe. 
A dreamer; an absent-minded person. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
A genus of dipterous insects, including the common house fly, and numerous allied species. 
A name given to several varieties of Old World grapes, differing in color, size, etc., but all having a somewhat musky flavor. The muscat of Alexandria is a large oval grape of a pale amber color. [Written also muskat.] 
An order or subclass of cryptogamous plants; the mosses. See Moss, and Cryptogamia. 
Any fly of the genus Musca, or family Muscidæ. 
See Mussel. Muscle curve (Physiol.), contraction curve of a muscle; a myogram; the curve inscribed, upon a prepared surface, by means of a myograph when acted upon by a contracting muscle. The character of the curve represents the extent of the contraction. 
A gap or hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, through which a wild animal is accustomed to pass; a muset. Find a hare without a muse. Old Prov. 
One of the nine goddesses who presided over song and the different kinds of poetry, and also the arts and sciences; -- often used in the plural. Granville commands; your aid, O Muses, bring: What Muse for Granville can refuse to sing Pope. 
Meditative; thoughtfully silent. "Museful mopings." Dryden. -- Muse"ful*ly, adv. 
One who muses. 
A small hole or gap through which a wild animal passes; a muse. Shak. 
A repository or a collection of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities, or of works of art. Museum beetle, Museum pest. (Zoöl.) See Anthrenus. 
Meal (esp. Indian meal) boiled in water; hasty pudding; supawn. [U.S.] 
To notch, cut, or indent, as cloth, with a stamp. 
Soft like mush; figuratively, good-naturedly weak and effusive; weakly sentimental. She 's not mushy, but her heart is tender. G. Eliot. 
A more or less musical sound made by many of the lower animals. See Stridulation. Magic music, a game in which a person is guided in finding a hidden article, or in doing a specific art required, by music which is made more loud or rapid as he approaches success, and slower as he recedes. Tennyson. -- Music box. See Musical box, under Musical. -- Music hall, a place for public musical entertainments. -- Music loft, a gallery for musicians, as in a dancing room or a church. -- Music of the spheres, the harmony supposed to be produced by the accordant movement of the celestial spheres. -- Music paper, paper ruled with the musical staff, for the use of composers and copyists. -- Music pen, a pen for ruling at one time the five lines of the musical staff. -- Music shell (Zoöl.), a handsomely colored marine gastropod shell (Voluta musica) found in the East Indies; -- so called because the color markings often resemble printed music. Sometimes applied to other shells similarly marked. -- To face the music, to meet any disagreeable necessity without flinching. [Colloq. or Slang] 
See Muset. 
The musk deer. See Musk deer (below). 
To perfume with musk. 
See Muscat. 
The male of the sparrow hawk. 
Having an odor of musk, or somewhat the like. Milton. 
See Moslem. 
A thin cotton, white, dyed, or printed. The name is also applied to coarser and heavier cotton goods; as, shirting and sheeting muslins. Muslin cambric. See Cambric. -- Muslin delaine, a light woolen fabric for women's dresses. See Delaine. [Written also mousseline de laine.] 
See Mouflon. 
A scramble, as when small objects are thrown down, to be taken by those who can seize them; a confused struggle. Shak. 
A state of confusion or disorder; -- prob. variant of mess, but influenced by muss, a scramble. [Colloq. U.S.] 
To disarrange, as clothing; to rumple. [Colloq. U.S.] 
A term of endearment. [Obs.] See Mouse. B. Jonson. 
Any one of many species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Mytilus, and related genera, of the family Mytidæ. The common mussel (Mytilus edulis; see Illust. under Byssus), and the larger, or horse, mussel (Modiola modiolus), inhabiting the shores both of Europe and America, are edible. The former is extensively used as food in Europe. 
Disarranged; rumpled. [Colloq. U.S.] 
Mustiness. 
To make musty; to become musty. 
A small tufted monkey. 
See Mestee. 
To be gathered together for parade, inspection, exercise, or the like; to come together as parts of a force or body; as, his supporters mustered in force. "The mustering squadron." Byron. 
The quality of being mutable, or subject to change or alteration, either in form, state, or essential character; susceptibility of change; changeableness; inconstancy; variation. Plato confessed that the heavens and the frame of the world are corporeal, and therefore subject to mutability. Stillingfleet. 
A process for checking the fermentation of the must of grapes. 
The close linen or muslin cap of an old woman. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To cast off; to molt. Have I muted all my feathers Beau. & Fl. 
To eject the contents of the bowels; -- said of birds. B. Jonson. 
The dung of birds. Hudibras. 
A letter which represents no sound; a silent letter; also, a close articulation; an element of speech formed by a position of the mouth organs which stops the passage of the breath; as, p, b, d, k, t. 
Without uttering words or sounds; in a mute manner; silently. 
A mutineer. [Obs.] 
To mutiny. [Obs.] 
Dung of birds. 
The condition, state, or habit of being mute, or without speech. Max Müller. 
To utter with imperfect articulations, or with a low voice; as, to mutter threats. Shak. 
Repressing or obscure utterance. 
Like mutton; having a flavor of mutton. 
The doctrine of mutual dependence as the condition of individual and social welfare. F. Harrison. H. Spencer. Mallock. 
A projecting block worked under the corona of the Doric corice, in the same situation as the modillion of the Corinthian and Composite orders. See Illust. of Gutta. Oxf. Gloss. 
Dirt; filth; muck. [Prov. Eng.] ose. 
To mix in an unitidy and offensive way; to make a mess of. [Prov. Eng.; Colloq. U.S.] 
Soft; sticky, and dirty. [Prov. Eng.] See Mucky. 
To bring the mouth or muzzle near. The bear muzzles and smels to him. L'Estrange. 
Absent-minded; dazed; muddled; stupid. The whole company stared at me with a whimsical, muzzy look, like men whose senses were a little obfuscated by beer rather then wine. W. Irving. 
A genus of bivalve mollusks, including the common long, or soft-shelled, clam. 
A division of bivalve mollusks of which the common clam (Mya) is the type. 
A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose and obtained from certain lichens and fungi. Called also trehalose. [Written also mykose.] 
The teledu. 
Inflammation of the spinal marrow or its membranes. 
The spinal cord. (Sometimes abbrev. to myel.) 
A genus of very large hairy spiders having four lungs and only four spinnerets. They do not spin webs, but usually construct tubes in the earth, which are often furnished with a trapdoor. The South American bird spider (Mygale avicularia), and the crab spider, or matoutou (M. cancerides) are among the largest species. Some of the species are erroneously called tarantulas, as the Texas tarantula (M. Hentzii). 
A salmon (Salmo mykiss, syn. S. purpuratus) marked with black spots and a red throat, found in most of the rivers from Alaska to the Colorado River, and in Siberia; -- called also black-spotted trout, cutthroat trout, and redthroat trout. 
Any one of numerous species of Asiatic starlings of the genera Acridotheres, Sturnopastor, Sturnia, Gracula, and allied genera. In habits they resemble the European starlings, and like them are often caged and taught to talk. See Hill myna, under Hill, and Mino bird. [Spelt also mynah.] 
Composed of, or resembling, muscular fiber. 
The essential material of muscle fibers. 
A tumor consisting of muscular tissue. 
A person having myopy; a myops. 
Nearsightedness; shortsightedness; a condition of the eye in which the rays from distant object are brought to a focus before they reach the retina, and hence form an indistinct image; while the rays from very near objects are normally converged so as to produce a distinct image. It is corrected by the use of a concave lens. 
Pertaining to, or affected with, or characterized by, myopia; nearsighted. Myopic astigmatism, a condition in which the eye is affected with myopia in one meridian only. 
See Myope. 
Myopia. 
An albuminous body present in dead muscle, being formed in the process of coagulation which takes place in rigor mortis; the clot formed in the coagulation of muscle plasma. See Muscle plasma, under Plasma. 
Long-continued contraction of the pupil of the eye. 
Producing myosis, or contraction of the pupil of the eye, as opium, calabar bean, etc. -- n. 
A large genus of tropical American trees and shrubs, nearly related to the true myrtles (Myrtus), from which they differ in having very few seeds in each berry. 
Consisting of a very great, but indefinite, number; as, myriad stars. 
A widely dispersed genus of shrubs and trees, usually with aromatic foliage. It includes the bayberry or wax myrtle, the sweet gale, and the North American sweet fern, so called. 
A gum resin, usually of a yellowish brown or amber color, of an aromatic odor, and a bitter, slightly pungent taste. It is valued for its odor and for its medicinal properties. It exuds from the bark of a shrub of Abyssinia and Arabia, the Balsamodendron Myrrha. The myrrh of the Bible is supposed to have been partly the gum above named, and partly the exudation of species of Cistus, or rockrose. False myrrh. See the Note under Bdellium. 
A species of the genus Myrtus, especially Myrtus communis. The common myrtle has a shrubby, upright stem, eight or ten feet high. Its branches form a close, full head, thickly covered with ovate or lanceolate evergreen leaves. It has solitary axillary white or rosy flowers, followed by black several-seeded berries. The ancients considered it sacred to Venus. The flowers, leaves, and berries are used variously in perfumery and as a condiment, and the beautifully mottled wood is used in turning. 
I or me in person; -- used for emphasis, my own self or person; as I myself will do it; I have done it myself; -- used also instead of me, as the object of the first person of a reflexive verb, without emphasis; as, I will defend myself. 
A genus of small schizopod shrimps found both in fresh and salt water; the opossum shrimps. One species inhabits the Great Lakes of North America, and is largely eaten by the whitefish. The marine species form part of the food of right whales. 
One given to mysticism; one who holds mystical views, interpretations, etc.; especially, in ecclesiastical history, one who professed mysticism. See Mysticism. 
See Myth. Grote. 
The distal end of the mandibles of a bird. 
A genus of marsipobranchs, including the hagfish. See Hag, 4. 
A tumor made up of a gelatinous tissue resembling that found in the umbilical cord. 
The cock of a gunlock. Knight. 
To catch or seize suddenly or unexpectedly. [Colloq.] Smollett. 
Pulverized sugar candy. Crabb. 
The edible berries of the Zizyphys Lotus, a tree of Northern Africa, and Southwestern Europe. [Written also nubk.] See Lotus (b), and Sadr. 
See Nacre. Johnson. 
A pearly substance which lines the interior of many shells, and is most perfect in the mother-of-pearl. [Written also nacker and naker.] See Pearl, and Mother-of-pearl. 
An adder. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Nenia. 
A nævus. [Obs.] Dryden. 
A spot or mark on the skin of children when born; a birthmark; -- usually applied to vascular tumors, i. e., those consisting mainly of blood vessels, as dilated arteries, veins, or capillaries. 
To tease in a petty way; to scold habitually; to annoy; to fret pertinaciously. [Colloq.] "She never nagged." J. Ingelow. 
The disease caused by the tsetse fly. [South Africa] 
Irritable; touchy. [Colloq.] 
A West African gazelle (Gazella redunca). 
A water nymph; one of the lower female divinities, fabled to preside over some body of fresh water, as a lake, river, brook, or fountain. 
(Her.) See Natant. Crabb. 
Any one of numerous species of small, fresh-water, chætopod annelids of the tribe Naidina. They belong to the Oligochæta. 
A chief; a leader; a Sepoy corporal. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 
the horny scale of plate of epidermis at the end of the fingers and toes of man and many apes. His nayles like a briddes claws were. Chaucer. 
A brush for cleaning the nails. 
A women who makes nailes. 
See Naiad. 
Having native or unaffected simplicity; ingenuous; artless; frank; as, naïve manners; a naïve person; naïve and unsophisticated remarks. 
,v.t. To make naked. [Obs.] Chaucer. Come, be ready, nake your swords. Old Play. 
Without pubescence; as, a naked leaf or stem; bare, or not covered by the customary parts, as a flower without a perianth, a stem without leaves, seeds without a pericarp, buds without bud scales. 
Same as Nacre. 
A kind of kettledrum. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The gavial. [Written also nako.] 
Ale; also, an alehouse. [Obs.] Great feasts at the nale. Chaucer. 
An awl. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Tusser. 
Am not. [Obs.] 
of Nim. Chaucer. 
To designate (a member) by name, as the Speaker does by way of reprimand. 
One who names, or calls by name. 
No more. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Anan. [Prov. Eng.] 
The condition of being abnormally small in stature; dwarfishness; -- opposed to gigantism. 
A diminutive of Ann or Anne, the proper name. Nanny goat, a female goat. [Colloq.] 
The magpie. 
A term used by modern archæologists instead of cella. See Cella. 
A short sleep; a doze; a siesta. Cowper. 
The loops which are cut to make the pile, in velvet. Knight. 
To raise, or put, a nap on. 
The back part of the neck. Spenser. 
Table linen; also, linen clothing, or linen in general. [Obs.] Gayton. 
See Navew. 
Without nap; threadbare. Shak. 
Sheet; surface; all that portion of a surface that is continuous in such a way that it is possible to pass from any one point of the portion to any other point of the portion without leaving the surface. Thus, some hyperboloids have one nappe, and some have two. 
Having a nap or pile; downy; shaggy. Holland. 
A round earthen dish, with a flat bottom and sloping sides. [Written also nappie.] 
A very small chevrotain (Tragulus Javanicus), native of Java. It is about the size of a hare, and is noted for its agility in leaping. Called also Java musk deer, pygmy musk deer, and deerlet. 
A kind of turnip. See Navew. 
An East Indian plant (Nardostachys Jatamansi) of the Valerian family, used from remote ages in Oriental perfumery. 
An Australian name for Marsilea Drummondii, a four-leaved cryptogamous plant, sometimes used for food. 
A nostril. [R.] B. Jonson. 
The nostrils or nasal openings, -- the anterior nares being the external or proper nostrils, and the posterior nares, the openings of the nasal cavities into the mouth or pharynx. 
The brown coati. See Coati. 
Of or belonging to the nostrils. 
Nearer. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Formed (as a vowel) by a close position of some part of the tongue in relation to the palate; or (according to Bell) by a tense condition of the pharynx; -- distinguished from wide; as e (eve) and oo (food), etc., from ì (ìll) and oo (foot), etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 13. 
A narrow passage; esp., a contracted part of a stream, lake, or sea; a strait connecting two bodies of water; -- usually in the plural; as, The Narrows of New York harbor. Near the island lay on one side the jaws of a dangerous narrow. Gladstone. 
To contract the size of, as a stocking, by taking two stitches into one. 
Not to step out enough to the one hand or the other; as, a horse narrows. Farrier's Dict. 
Art not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Narwhal. 
Narrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Was not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Has not. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Of or pertaining to the nose. 
A medicine that operates through the nose; an errhine. [Archaic] 
A kind of pessary of medicated wool or cotton, formerly used. 
Firm; stiff; hard; also, chilly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
The middle point of the nasofrontal suture. 
Any species of marine gastropods, of the genera Nassa, Tritia, and other allied genera of the family Nassidæ; a dog whelk. See Illust. under Gastropoda. -- nas"soid, a. 
Quickness of scent; hence, nice discernment; acuteness. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
Not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Not at; nor at. [Obs.] haucer. 
Presiding over nativity; as, natal Jove. 
One's birth, or the circumstances attending it. [Obs.] Fitz- Geffry. 
Floating in water, as the leaves of water lilies, or submersed, as those of many aquatic plants. 
The rump of beef; esp., the lower and back part of the rump. Natch bone, the edgebone, or aitchbone, in beef. 
The umbones of a bivalve shell. 
hath not. [Obs.] 
Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods belonging to Natica, Lunatia, Neverita, and other allied genera (family Naticidæ.) They burrow beneath the sand, or mud, and drill other shells. 
A part, or division, of the people of the earth, distinguished from the rest by common descent, language, or institutions; a race; a stock. All nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues. Rev. vii. 9. 
Any of the live stock found in a region, as distinguished from such as belong to pure and distinct imported breeds. [U.S.] 
A species of shrike. 
Native sodium carbonate. [Written also anatron.] 
To find fault; to be peevish. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.] 
Neat; tidy; spruce. [Colloq.] -- Nat"ti*ly, adv. -- Nat"ti*ness, n. 
To endow with natural qualities. [Obs.] He [God] which natureth every kind. Gower. 
In no degree; not at all. Chaucer. To wealth or sovereign power he naught applied. Fairfax. 
In a naughty manner; wickedly; perversely. Shak. 
Seasickness; hence, any similar sickness of the stomach accompanied with a propensity to vomit; qualm; squeamishness of the stomach; loathing. 
An entertainment consisting chiefly of dancing by professional dancing (or Nautch) girls. [India] 
Nautical. 
Having to do with shipping; of or pertaining to ships or a navy; consisting of ships; as, naval forces, successes, stores, etc. 
Naval affairs. [Obs.] 
The middle or body of a church, extending from the transepts to the principal entrances, or, if there are no transepts, from the choir to the principal entrance, but not including the aisles. 
A mark or depression in the middle of the abdomen; the umbilicus. See Umbilicus.belly button in humans 
A kind of small turnip, a variety of Brassica campestris. See Brassica. [Writen also naphew.] 
Originally, a laborer on canals for internal navigation; hence, a laborer on other public works, as in building railroads, embankments, etc. [Eng.] 
Prussian blue. 
A deputy ruler or viceroy in India; also, a title given by courtesy to other persons of high rank in the East. 
An awl. [Obs.] usser. 
To refuse. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
A specied of wild sheep (Ovis Hodgsonii), native of Nepaul and Thibet. It has a dorsal mane and a white ruff beneath the neck. 
To refuse; to deny. [Obs.] "He shall not nayt ne deny his sin." Chaucer. 
A promotory or headland. 
See 2d Neif. Shak. 
To anneal. [R.] Chaucer. 
To be tempered by heat. [R.] Bacon. 
The tongue or pole of a cart or other vehicle drawn by two animals. [U.S.] 
Low. Neap tides, the lowest tides of the lunar month, which occur in the second and fourth quarters of the moon; -- opposed to spring tides. 
A neap tide. High springs and dead neaps. Harkwill. 
Left aground on the height of a spring tide, so that it will not float till the next spring tide; -- called also beneaped. 
Adjacent to; close by; not far from; nigh; as, the ship sailed near the land. See the Note under near, a. 
To approach; to come nearer; as, the ship neared the land. 
To draw near; to approach. A speck, a mist, a shape, I wist! And still it neared, and neared. Coleridge. 
In a near manner; not remotely; closely; intimately; almost. 
Cattle of the genus Bos, as distinguished from horses, sheep, and goats; an animal of the genus Bos; as, a neat's tongue; a neat's foot. Chaucer. Wherein the herds[men] were keeping of their neat. Spenser. The steer, the heifer, and the calf Are all called neat. Shak. A neat and a sheep of his own. Tusser. Neat's-foot, an oil obtained by boiling the feet of neat cattle. It is used to render leather soft and pliable. 
Of or pertaining to the genus Bos, or to cattle of that genus; as, neat cattle. 
An abbreviation of Beneath. [Poetic] 
In a neat manner; tidily; tastefully. 
The nose; the snout; the mouth; the beak of a bird; a nib, as of a pen. [Also written nib.] Shak. 
A faint, cloudlike, self-luminous mass of matter situated beyond the solar system among the stars. True nebulæ are gaseous; but very distant star clusters often appear like them in the telescope. 
A little cloud; a cloud. [Obs.] O light without nebule. Old Ballad. 
A line or a direction composed of successive short curves or waves supposed to resembe a cloud. See NÉbulÉ 
A reduction in size near the end of an object, formed by a groove around it; as, a neck forming the journal of a shaft. 
To reduce the diameter of (an object) near its end, by making a groove around it; -- used with down; as, to neck down a shaft. v. t. & i. To kiss and caress amorously. n. necking 
Cracked; -- said of a treenail. 
The drink of the gods (as ambrosia was their food); hence, any delicious or inspiring beverage. 
An adder. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. 
A pet name for a donkey. 
Born; -- a term sometimes used in introducing the name of the family to which a married woman belongs by birth; as, Madame de Staël, née Necker. 
To be in want of; to have cause or occasion for; to lack; to require, as supply or relief. Other creatures all day long Rove idle, unemployed, and less need rest. Milton. 
To be wanted; to be necessary. Chaucer. When we have done it, we have done all that is in our power, and all that needs. Locke. 
Of necessity. See Needs. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who needs anything. Shak. 
One of the needle-shaped secondary leaves of pine trees. See Pinus. 
To form in the shape of a needle; as, to needle crystals. 
To form needles; to crystallize in the form of needles. 
Like a needle or needles; as, a needly horn; a needly beard. R. D. Blackmore. 
Necessarily; of necessity. [Obs.] hak. 
Of necessity; necessarily; indispensably; -- often with must, and equivalent to of need. A man must needs love mauger his head. Chaucer. And he must needs go through Samaria. John iv. 4. He would needs know the cause of his reulse. Sir J. Davies. 
A needle. [Obs.] Shak. 
Nearer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To sneeze. [Obs.] [Written also neeze.] 
The nave of a church. Addison. 
Wicked. [R.] 
Business; occupation. [Obs.] Bentley. 
A black man; especially, one of a race of black or very dark persons who inhabit the greater part of tropical Africa, and are distinguished by crisped or curly hair, flat noses, and thick protruding lips; also, any black person of unmixed African blood, wherever found. 
of or pertaining to negroes; black. Negro bug (Zoöl.), a minute black bug common on the raspberry and blackberry. It produced a very disagreeable flavor. -- negro corn, the Indian millet or durra; -- so called in the West Indies. see Durra. McElrath. -- Negro fly (Zoöl.), a black dipterous fly (Psila rosæ) which, in the larval state, is injurious to carrots; -- called also carrot fly. -- Negro head (Com.), Cavendish tobacco. [Cant] McElrath. -- Negro monkey (Zoöl.), the moor monkey. 
A beverage made of wine, water, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon juice; -- so called, it is said, from its first maker, Colonel Negus. 
The cry of a horse; a whinny. 
Of or pertaining to Nemea, in Argolis, where the ancient Greeks celebrated games, and Hercules killed a lion. 
To name or call. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
of Nempne. Called; named. [Obs.] 
The ichneumon. 
A funeral song; an elegy. 
An alloy resembling silver, and consisting chiefly of copper, zinc, and nickel, with small proportions of tin, aluminium, and bismuth. Ure. 
Catnip. 
A genus of aquatic hemipterus insects. The species feed upon other insects and are noted for their voracity; -- called also scorpion bug and water scorpion. 
A genus of labiate plants, including the catnip and ground ivy. 
Giants. Gen. vi. 4. Num. xiii. 33. 
nearer. [Obs.] See Nerre. 
Were not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A sea nymph, one of the daughters of Nereus, who were attendants upon Neptune, and were represented as riding on sea horses, sometimes with the human form entire, and sometimes with the tail of a fish. 
A Nereid. See Nereid. 
A genus of marine gastropods, mostly natives of warm climates. 
Any mollusk of the genus Nerita. 
The most important salmon of Alaska (Oncorhinchus nerka), ascending in spring most rivers and lakes from Alaska to Oregon, Washington, and Idaho; --called also red salmon, redfish, blueback, and sawqui. 
A Roman emperor notorius for debauchery and barbarous cruelty; hence, any profligate and cruel ruler or merciless tyrant. -- Ne*ro"ni*an, a. 
An essential oil obtained by distillation from the flowers of the orange. It has a strong odor, and is used in perfumery, etc. Neroli camphor (Chem.), a white crystalline waxy substance, tasteless and odorless, obtained from beroli oil; -- called also auradin. 
Nearer. [Obs.] [Written also neer, ner.] Chaucer. Never the neer, never the nearer; no nearer. [Obs.] 
One of the whitish and elastic bundles of fibers, with the accompanying tissues, which transmit nervous impulses between nerve centers and various parts of the animal body. 
To give strength or vigor to; to supply with force; as, fear nerved his arm. 
Having nerves, or simple and parallel ribs or veins. Gray. 
Strong; sinewy. "His nervy knees." Keats. 
Nose. [Obs.] Piers plowman. 
Soft; tender; delicate. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
A promontory; a cape; a headland. Hakluyt. 
An aggregated mass of any ore or mineral, in an isolated state, within a rock. 
To build and occupy a nest. The king of birds nested within his leaves. Howell. 
To put into a nest; to form a nest for. From him who nested himself into the chief power. South. 
To house, as in a nest. 
A genus of parrots with gray heads. of New Zeland and papua, allied to the cockatoos. See Kaka. 
A figure made up of a large number of straight lines or curves, which are connected at certain points and related to each other by some specified law. 
To form network or netting; to knit. 
To produce or gain as clear profit; as, he netted a thousand dollars by the operation. 
Situated down or below; lying beneath, or in the lower part; having a lower position; belonging to the region below; lower; under; -- opposed to upper. 'Twixt upper, nether, and surrounding fires. Milton. This darksome nether world her light Doth dim with horror and deformity. Spenser. All my nether shape thus grew transformed. Milton. 
To render neat; to clean; to put in order. [R.] Chapman. 
A plant of the genus Urtica, covered with minute sharp hairs containing a poison that produces a stinging sensation. Urtica gracitis is common in the Northern, and U. chamædryoides in the Southern, United States. the common European species, U. urens and U. dioica, are also found in the Eastern united States. U. pilulifera is the Roman nettle of England. 
To fret or sting; to irritate or vex; to cause to experience sensations of displeasure or uneasiness not amounting to violent anger. The princes were so nettled at the scandal of this affront, that every man took it to himself. L'Estrange. 
Like a net, or network; netted. [R.] 
Toward the neural side; -- opposed to hæmad. 
relating to the nerves or nervous system; taining to, situated in the region of, or on the side with, the neural, or cerebro-spinal, axis; -- opposed to hemal. As applied to vertebrates, neural is the same as dorsal; as applied to invertebrates it is usually the same as ventral. Cf. Hemal. Neural arch (Anat.), the cartilaginous or bony arch on the dorsal side of the centrum of the vertebra in a segment of the spinal skeleton, usually inclosing a segment of the spinal cord. 
The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis; myelencephalon. B. G. Wilder. 
Having no generative organs, or imperfectly developed ones; sexless. See Neuter, n., 3. 
An organism, either vegetable or animal, which at its maturity has no generative organs, or but imperfectly developed ones, as a plant without stamens or pistils, as the garden Hydrangea; esp., one of the imperfectly developed females of certain social insects, as of the ant and the common honeybee, which perform the labors of the community, and are called workers. 
The upper part of a glacier, above the limit or perpetual snow. See Galcier. 
To name; to mention; to utter. [Obs.] As oft I heard my lord them neven. Chaucer. 
Never again; at no time hereafter. Testament of Love. Tyndale. Where springtime of the Hesperides Begins, but endeth nevermore. Longfellow. 
Nephew. [Obs.] haucer. 
Newly; recently. Chaucer. 
To make new; to renew. [Obs.] 
A novelty; a new thing. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The upright post about which the steps of a circular staircase wind; hence, in stairs having straight flights, the principal post at the foot of a staircase, or the secondary ones at the landings. See Hollow newel, under Hollow. 
Yeast; barm. [prov. Eng.] 
Somewhat new; nearly new. Bacon. 
A long, closely fitting cloak. 
A newspaper. [Obs.] 
Full of news; abounding in information as to current events. [Colloq.] 
Any one of several species of small aquatic salamanders. The common British species are the crested newt (Triton cristatus) and the smooth newt (Lophinus punctatus). In America, Diemictylus viridescens is one of the most abundant species. 
In the time, place, or order nearest or immediately suceeding; as, this man follows next. 
Connection; tie. Man is doubtless one by some subtile nexus ... extending from the new-born infant to the superannuated dotard. De Quincey. 
The gorilla. 
A young hawk; an eyas; hence, an unsophisticated person. [Obs.] 
The bill or beak of a bird; the neb. 
To furnish with a nib; to point; to mend the point of; as, to nib a pen. 
Having a nib or point. 
To bite by little at a time; to seize gently with the mouth; to eat slowly or in small bits. Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep. Shak. 
To bite upon something gently or cautiously; to eat a little of a thing, as by taking small bits cautiously; as, fishes nibble at the bait. Instead of returning a full answer to my book, he manifestly falls a- nibbling at one single passage. Tillotson. 
A small or cautious bite. 
In a nice manner. 
Of or pertaining to Nice, a town of Asia Minor, or to the ecumenial council held there A. D. 325. Nicene Creed (, a summary of Christian faith, composed and adopted by the Council of Nice, against Arianism, A. D. 325, altered and confirmed by the Council of Constantinople, A. D. 381, and by subsequent councils. 
Nicety. [Colloq.] Chapman. 
A cavity, hollow, or recess, generally within the thickness of a wall, for a statue, bust, or other erect ornament. hence, any similar position, literal or figurative. Images defended from the injuries of the weather by niches of stone wherein they are placed. Evelun. 
Placed in a niche. "Those niched shapes of noble mold." Tennyson. 
An evil spirit of the waters. Old Nick, the evil one; the devil. [Colloq.] 
To nickname; to style. [Obs.] For Warbeck, as you nick him, came to me. Ford. 
A bright silver-white metallic element. It is of the iron group, and is hard, malleable, and ductile. It occurs combined with sulphur in millerite, with arsenic in the mineral niccolite, and with arsenic and sulphur in nickel glance. Symbol Ni. Atomic weight 58.6. 
A rounded seed, rather smaller than a nutmeg, having a hard smooth shell, and a yellowish or bluish color. The seeds grow in the prickly pods of tropical, woody climbers of the genus Cæsalpinia. C. Bonduc has yellowish seeds; C.Bonducella, bluish gray. [Spelt also neckar nut, nickar nut.] 
The European woodpecker, or yaffle; -- called also nicker pecker. 
A collection of nests. [R.] velyn. 
A nestful; a brood; as, a nide of pheasants. [Obs.] 
A fool; an idiot, a coward. [Obs.] Camden. 
A coward; a dastard; -- a term of utmost opprobrium. [Obs.] He is worthy to be called a niding. Howell. 
Scent or savor of meat or food, cooked or cooking. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 
A nest: a repository for the eggs of birds, insects, etc.; a breeding place; esp., the place or substance where parasites or the germs of a disease effect lodgment or are developed. 
See Neif, the fist. 
A process, now no longer used, invented by J. N. Niepce, a French chemist, in 1829. It depends upon the action of light in rendering a thin layer of bitumen, with which the plate is coated, insoluble. 
A trifle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Hammer-dressed; -- said of building stone. 
A negro; -- in vulgar derision or depreciation. 
To trifle with; to deceive; to mock. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
One who niggles. 
To draw nigh (to); to approach; to come near. [Obs.] Wyclif (Matt. iii. 2). 
Near to; not remote or distant from. "was not this nigh shore" Shak. 
In a near relation in place, time, degree, etc.; within a little; almost. [Obs.] A cube and a sphere ... nighly of the same bigness. Locke. 
Blooming in the night. Night-blooming cereus. (Bot.) See Note under Cereus. 
The chigoe. 
Nothing. Nihil album Etym: [L., white nothing] (Chem.), oxide of zinc. See under Zinc. -- Nihil debet Etym: [L., he owes nothing] (Law), the general issue in certain actions of debt. -- Nihil dicit Etym: [L., he says nothing] (Law), a declinature by the defendant to plead or answer. Tomlins. 
Will not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Nothing; of no account; worthless; -- a term often used for canceling, in accounts or bookkeeping. A. J. Ellis. 
The great river of Egypt. Nile bird. (Zoöl.) (a) The wryneck. [Prov. Eng.] (b) The crocodile bird. -- Nile goose (Zoöl.), the Egyptian goose. See Note under Goose, 2. 
see Nylghau. 
Not to will; to refuse; to reject. [Obs.] Certes, said he, I nill thine offered grace. Spenser. 
To be unwilling; to refuse to act. The actions of the will are "velle" and "nolle," to will and nill. Burton. Will he, nill he, whether he wills it or not. 
An instrument for measuring the rise of water in the Nile during its periodical flood. 
Wilt not. [Obs.] 
To take; to steal; to filch. [Obs.] This canon it in his hand nam. Chaucer. 
Light and quick in motion; moving with ease and celerity; lively; swift. Through the mid seas the nimble pinnace sails. Pope. 
In a nimble manner; with agility; with light, quick motion. 
A circle, or disk, or any indication of radiant light around the heads of divinities, saints, and sovereigns, upon medals, pictures, etc.; a halo. See Aureola, and Glory, n., 5. 
A thief. [Obs.] 
Not in. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Eight and one more; one less than ten; as, nine miles. Nine men's morris. See Morris. -- Nine points circle (Geom.), a circle so related to any given triangle as to pass through the three points in which the perpendiculars from the angles of the triangle upon the opposite sides (or the sides produced) meet the sides. It also passes through the three middle points of the sides of the triangle and through the three middle points of those parts of the perpendiculars that are between their common point of meeting and the angles of the triangle. The circle is hence called the nine points or six points circle. 
A white-flowered rosaceous shrub (Neillia, or Spiræa, opulifolia), common in the Northern United States. The bark separates into many thin layers, whence the name. 
Nine times ten; eighty-nine and one more; as, ninety men. 
A fool; a simpleton. Shak. 
In the ninth place. 
The magpie. [Prov. Eng.] 
The daughter of Tantalus, and wife of Amphion, king of Thebes. Her pride in her children provoked Apollo and Diana, who slew them all. Niobe herself was changed by the gods into stone. 
Same as Columbic. 
A kind of snuff prepared by the natives of Venezuela from the roasted seeds of a leguminous tree (Piptadenia peregrina), thence called niopo tree. 
A sip or small draught; esp., a draught of intoxicating liquor; a dram. 
A short turn in a rope. Nip and tuck, a phrase signifying equality in a contest. [Low, U.S.] 
A small cup. [Obs.] 
The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the breast or mamma; the mammilla; a teat; a pap. 
Is not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The first month of the jewish ecclesiastical year, formerly answering nearly to the month of April, now to March, of the Christian calendar. See Abib. 
A simpleton. [Obs.] 
Unless; if not. 
Wist not; knew not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A striving; an effort; a conatus. A nisus or energizing towards a presented object. Hickok. 
The egg of a louse or other small insect. Nit grass (Bot.), a pretty annual European grass (Gastridium lendigerum), with small spikelets somewhat resembling a nit. It is also found in California and Chili. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acid produced as a white crystalline substance by the action of nitrous acid on hydroquinone. 
See Niter. 
Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrogen; specifically, designating any one of those compounds in which, as contrasted with nitrous compounds, the element has a higher valence; as, nitric oxide; nitric acid. Nitric acid, a colorless or yellowish liquid obtained by distilling a nitrate with sulphuric acid. It is powerfully corrosive, being a strong acid, and in decomposition a strong oxidizer. -- Nitric anhydride, a white crystalline oxide of nitrogen (N2O5), called nitric pentoxide, and regarded as the anhydride of nitric acid. -- Nitric oxide, a colorless poisous gas (NO) obtained by treating nitric acid with copper. On contact with the air or with oxygen, it becomes reddish brown from the formation of nitric dioxide or peroxide. 
Any one of a series of hydrocarbons containing the nitro and the nitroso or isonitroso group united to the same carbon atom. 
Niter. Nitrum flammans Etym: [L., flaming niter] (Old Chem.), ammonium nitrate; -- probably so called because it deflagerates when suddenly heated. 
Nitrous. [Obs.] 
A name sometimes given to the nitro group or radical. 
The horselouse; an insect that deposits nits on horses. 
Full of nits. B. Jonson. 
Shining; elegant; spruce. [Obs.] "O sweet, nitty youth." Marston. 
Abounding with snow; snowy. [Obs.] Johnson. 
The fourth month of the French republican calendar [1792-1806]. It commenced December 21, and ended January 19. See VendÉmiaire. 
One of a class of water spirits, commonly described as of a mischievous disposition. The treacherous nixes who entice men to a watery death. Tylor. 
See Nix. 
The title of the native sovereigns of Hyderabad, in India, since 1719. 
A patriarch of Biblical history, in the time of the Deluge. Noah's ark. (a) (Zoöl.) A marine bivalve shell (Arca Noæ), which somewhat resembles an ark, or ship, in form. (b) A child's toy, consisting of an ark-shaped box containing many different wooden animals. 
The head. [Low] 
A person in a superior position in life; a nobleman. [Slang] 
Stylish; modish; elegant; showy; aristocratic; fashionable. [Slang] 
A European fish; the lyrie. 
To make noble; to ennoble. [Obs.] Thou nobledest so far forth our nature. Chaucer. 
Indian corn parched, and beaten to powder, -- used for food by the Northern American Indians. 
A criminal. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
Hurtful; injurious. [R.] Hooker. 
The upper fore corner of a boom sail or of a trysail. 
To notch; to fit to the string, as an arrow; to string, as a bow. Chapman. 
Of the nature of, or relating to, a node; as, a nodal point. Nodal line, Nodal point, in a vibrating plate or cord, that line or point which remains at rest while the other parts of the body are in a state of vibration. 
One who nods; a drowsy person. 
Of or pertaining to the nodes; from a node to the same node again; as, the nodical revolutions of the moon. Nodical month. See Lunar month, under Month. 
Having nodes or prominences; having the alternate joints enlarged, as the antennæ of certain insects. 
A rounded mass or irregular shape; a little knot or lump. 
Same as Nowel. 
Not of; nor of. [Obs.] 
A treenail to fasten the shores. 
To fasten, as shores, with treenails. 
Made of hemp; hence, hard; rough; harsh. [Obs.] Johnson. 
Rough brick masonry used to fill in the interstices of a wooden frame, in building. 
Not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To annoy. See Noy. [Obs.] 
An annoyer. [Obs.] Tusser. 
A short or waste piece or knot of wool separated from the longer staple by combing; also, a similar piece or shred of waste silk. 
Waste and knots of wool removed by the comb; combings. 
To anoint. [Obs.] Sir T. North. 
Annoying; troublesome. [Obs.] 
To sound; to make a noise. Milton. 
Loud; clamorous. [Obs.] Dryden. 
Would not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The head. [Obs.] Shak. 
The head; the noddle. [Obs.] 
Neat cattle. [Prov. Eng.] 
Name. Nom de guerre (, literally, war name; hence, a fictitious name, or one assumed for a time. -- Nom de plume (, literally, pen name; hence, a name assumed by an author as his or her signature. 
See Canker, n., 1. 
One of a race or tribe that has no fixed location, but wanders from place to place in search of pasture or game. 
Roving; nomadic. 
See Nomad, n. 
See Term. 
A name or term. 
Customary; ordinary; -- applied to the usual English spelling, in distinction from strictly phonetic methods. H Sweet. -- n. 
No; not. See No, a. Chaucer. 
The ninth part of movable goods, formerly payable to the clergy on the death of persons in their parishes. Mozley & W. 
Time of life before a person becomes of age; legal immaturity; minority. The human mind . . . was still in its nonage. Coleridge. 
One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons C9H20 of the paraffin series; -- so called because of the nine carbon atoms in the molecule. Normal nonane is a colorless volatile liquid, an ingredient of ordinary kerosene. 
The one or single occasion; the present call or purpose; -- chiefly used in the phrase for the nonce. The miller was a stout carl for the nones. Chaucer. And that he calls for drink, I 'll have prepared him A chalice for the nonce. Shak. Nonce word, "a word apparently employed only for the nonce". Murray (New English Dict. ). 
The edible plumlike fruit of the Australian tree, Parinarium Nonda. 
A coarse umbelliferous plant (Ligusticum actæifolium) with a large aromatic root. It is found chiefly in the Alleghany region. Also called Angelico. 
Same as Nones, 2. 
The fifth day of the months January, February, April, June, August, September, November, and December, and the seventh day of March, May, July, and October. The nones were nine days before the ides, reckoning inclusively, according to the Roman method. 
The titmouse. [Obs.] 
A vernier. 
A nun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A silly fellow; a ninny. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, nonane; as, nonoic acid, which is also called pelargonic acid. Cf. Pelargonic. 
Any one of several metameric unsaturated hydrocarbons (C9H14) of the valylene series. 
The hydrocarbon radical, C9H19, derived from nonane and forming many compounds. Used also adjectively; as, nonyl alcohol. 
A simpleton; a blockhead; a stupid person; a ninny. [Low] The chuckling grin of noodles. Sydney Smith. 
A thin strip of dough, made with eggs, rolled up, cut into small pieces, and used in soup. 
A narrow place formed by an angle in bodies or between bodies; a corner; a recess; a secluded retreat. How couldst thou find this dark, sequestered nook Milton. 
No. See the Note under No. [Obs.] 
Belonging to midday; occurring at midday; meridional. Young. 
To take rest and refreshment at noon. 
A running knot, or loop, which binds the closer the more it is drawn. 
To tie in a noose; to catch in a noose; to entrap; to insnare. 
See lst Not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A cactaceous plant (Nopalea cochinellifera), originally Mexican, on which the cochineal insect feeds, and from which it is collected. The name is sometimes given to other species of Cactaceæ. 
A bullfinch. [Prov. Eng.] 
A negative connective or particle, introducing the second member or clause of a negative proposition, following neither, or not, in the first member or clause (as or in affirmative propositions follows either). Nor is also used sometimes in the first member for neither, and sometimes the neither is omitted and implied by the use of nor. Provide neither gold nor silver, nor brass, in your purses, nor scrip for your journey. Matt. x. 9, 10. Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt. Matt. vi. 20. I love him not, nor fear him. Shak. Where neither party is nor true, nor kind. Shak. Simois nor Xanthus shall be wanting there. Dryden. 
A large water wheel, turned by the action of a stream against its floats, and carrying at its circumference buckets, by which water is raised and discharged into a trough; used in Arabia, China, and elsewhere for irrigating land; a Persian wheel. 
Pertaining to the upper portion of the Laurentian rocks. T. S. Hunt. 
Nurse. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The cormorant. [Prov. Eng.] 
A granular crystalline rock consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar (as labradorite) and hypersthene. 
A supposed metal alleged to have been discovered in zircon. 
A typical, structural unit; a type. Agassiz. 
According to a square or rule; perpendicular; forming a right angle. Specifically: Of or pertaining to a normal. 
A straight line or plane drawn from any point of a curve or surface so as to be perpendicular to the curve or surface at that point. 
A wooden bar, or iron pin. W. C. Russell. 
Of or pertaining to Normandy or to the Normans; as, the Norman language; the Norman conquest. Norman style (Arch.), a style of architecture which arose in the tenth century, characterized by great massiveness, simplicity, and strength, with the use of the semicircular arch, heavy round columns, and a great variety of ornaments, among which the zigzag and spiral or cable-formed ornaments were prominent. 
A native or inhabitant of Normandy; originally, one of the Northmen or Scandinavians who conquered Normandy in the 10th century; afterwards, one of the mixed (Norman-French) race which conquered England, under William the Conqueror. 
The most northern of the English Kings-at-arms. See King-at- arms, under King. 
Of or pertaining to ancient Scandinavia, or to the language spoken by its inhabitants. 
The Norse language. 
Lying toward the north; situated at the north, or in a northern direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the north, or coming from the north. North following. See Following, a., 2. -- North pole, that point in the heavens, or on the earth, ninety degrees from the equator toward the north. -- North preceding. See Following, a., 2. -- North star, the star toward which the north pole of the earth very nearly points, and which accordingly seems fixed and immovable in the sky. The star a (alpha) of the Little Bear, is our present north star, being distant from the pole about 1º 25', and from year to year approaching slowly nearer to it. It is called also Cynosura, polestar, and by astronomers, Polaris. 
To turn or move toward the north; to veer from the east or west toward the north. 
Northward. 
The prominent part of the face or anterior extremity of the head containing the nostrils and olfactory cavities; the olfactory organ. See Nostril, and Olfactory organ under Olfactory. 
A bag in which feed for a horse, ox, or the like, may be fastened under the nose by a string passing over the head. 
Having a nose, or such a nose; -- chieflay used in composition; as, pug-nosed. 
To nurse; to lead or teach; to foster; to nuzzle. [Obs.] If any man use the Scripture . . . to nosel thee in anything save in Christ, he is a false prophet. Tyndale. 
That part of the treadboard of a stair which projects over the riser; hence, any like projection, as the projecting edge of a molding. 
Nozzle. [Obs.] 
Wottest not; knowest not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A genus of algæ. The plants are composed of moniliform cells imbedded in a gelatinous substance. 
Wot not; know not; knows not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Shorn; shaven. [Obs.] See Nott. 
A word used to express negation, prohibition, denial, or refusal. Not one word spake he more than was need. Chaucer. Thou shalt not steal. Ex. xx. 15. Thine eyes are upon me, and I am not. Job vii. 8. The question is, may I do it, or may I not do it Bp. Sanderson. Not . . . but, or Not but, only. [Obs. or Colloq.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to the back; dorsal. 
A public officer who attests or certifies deeds and other writings, or copies of them, usually under his official seal, to make them authentic, especially in foreign countries. His duties chiefly relate to instruments used in commercial transactions, such as protests of negotiable paper, ship's papers in cases of loss, damage, etc. He is generally called a notary public. 
Marked with spots or lines, which are often colored. Henslow. 
The board which receives the ends of the steps in a staircase. 
To butt; to push with the horns. [Prov. Eng.] 
Know not; knows not. [Obs.] 
Nut. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Need; needful business. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Hence, a writing intended to be used in speaking; memoranda to assist a speaker, being either a synopsis, or the full text of what is to be said; as, to preach from notes; also, a reporter's memoranda; the original report of a speech or of proceedings. 
Well known by reputation or report; eminent; celebrated; as, a noted author, or traveler. -- Not"ed*ly, adv. -- Not"ed*ness, n. 
Worthy of observation or notice; remarkable. 
Neither; nor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Capable of being observed; worthy of notice; likely to attract observation; conspicous. A noticeable man, with large gray eyes. Wordsworth. 
A notional or groundless opinion. [R.] Glanvill. 
An annotator. [Obs.] 
Shorn. [Obs.] 
To shear. [Obs.] Stow. 
The back. 
The south wind. 
An ouch; a jewel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A cake, sweetmeat, or confectión made with almonds or other nuts. 
See Naught. Chaucer. 
Would not. [Obs.] "By those who nould repent." Fairfax. 
The top of the head; the head or noll. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A word used as the designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in thought; a substantive. 
Of or pertaining to a noun. Verbs which in whole or in part have shed their old nounal coat. Earle. 
Intellect; understanding; talent; -- used humorously. 
A new star, usually appearing suddenly, shining for a brief period, and then sinking into obscurity. Such appearances are supposed to result from cosmic collisions, as of a dark star with interstellar nebulosities. The most important modern novæ are: -- No"va Co*ro"næ Bo`re*a"lis [1866]; No"va Cyg"ni [1876]; No"va An*dro"me*dæ [1885]; No"va Au*ri"gæ [1891-92]; No"va Per"se*i [1901]. There are two novæ called Nova Persei. They are: (a) A small nova which appeared in 1881. (b) An extraordinary nova which appeared in Perseus in 1901. It was first sighted on February 22, and for one night (February 23) was the brightest star in the sky. By July it had almost disappeared, after which faint surrounding nebulous masses were discovered, apparently moving radially outward from the star at incredible velocity. 
Of recent origin or introduction; not ancient; new; hence, out of the ordinary course; unusual; strange; surprising. 
News; fresh tidings. [Obs.] Some came of curiosity to hear some novels. Latimer. 
Relating to, or dependent on, the number nine; novenary. [R.] The triple and novene division ran throughout. Milman. 
One who enters a religious house, whether of monks or nuns, as a probationist. Shipley. No poore cloisterer, nor no novys. Chaucer. 
Like a novice; becoming a novice. [Obs.] 
Newness; novelty. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
A game at dice, properly called novem quinque (L., nine five), the two principal throws being nine and five. [Obs.] Shak. 
Existing at the present time; present. [R.] "Our now happiness." Glanvill. 
The present time or moment; the present. Nothing is there to come, and nothing past; But an eternal now does ever last. Cowley. 
See Nouch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The European gray gurnard (Trigla gurnardus). [Written also knoud.] 
Knotted; tied in a knot, as a serpent. 
A kind of hymn, or canticle, of mediæval origin, sung in honor of the Nativity of our Lord; a Christmas carol. Grove. 
The marriage knot. [Obs.] Crashaw. 
Not in any manner or degree; in no way; noways. Others whose case is nowise different. Earle. 
Neat cattle. 
See Nouthe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To annoy; to vex. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Piers Plowman. All that noyed his heavy spright. Spenser. 
That which annoys. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
A drowning of many persons at once, -- a method of execution practiced at Nantes in France during the Reign of Terror, by Jean Baptiste Carrier. 
A cordial of brandy, etc., flavored with the kernel of the bitter almond, or of the peach stone, etc. 
An annoyer. [Obs.] Tusser. 
Full of annoyance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Noils. 
Annoying; disagreeable. [Obs.] Watch the noyous night, and wait for Spenser. 
Nozzle. [Obs.] 
A shade of difference; a delicate gradation. 
To push; to nudge; also, to beckon. [Prov. Eng.] 
A jag, or snag; a knob; a protuberance; also, the point or gist, as of a story. [Colloq.] 
A small or imperfect ear of maize. [Colloq. U. S.] 
To beat or bruise with the fist. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
A light fabric of wool, worn on the head by women; a cloud. 
Of or pertaining to Nubia in Eastern Africa. -- n. 
Of an age suitable for marriage; marriageable. Prior. 
The back or upper part of the neck; the nape. 
Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the back, or nape, of the neck; -- applied especially to the anterior median plate in the carapace of turtles. 
See Juglone. 
A genus of small marine bivalve shells, having a pearly interior. 
Same as Nutlet. 
To walk quickly with the head bent forward; -- often with along. [Prov. Eng.] 
Naked; without consideration; void; as, a nude contract. See Nudum pactum. Blackstone. The nude, the undraped human figure in art. -- Nude"ly, adv.- Nude"ness, n. 
To touch gently, as with the elbow, in order to call attention or convey intimation. 
A gentle push, or jog, as with the elbow. 
A bare, naked contract, without any consideration. Tomlins. 
Trifles; jests. 
A lump; a mass, esp. a native lump of a precious metal; as, a nugget of gold. 
To render trifling or futile; to make silly. [R.] Coleridge. 
No; not any; as, nul disseizin; nul tort. 
Of no legal or binding force or validity; of no efficacy; invalid; void; nugatory; useless. Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, Dead perfection; no more. Tennyson. 
To annul. [Obs.] Milton. 
One of the beads in nulled work. 
A water course, esp. a dry one; a gully; a gorge; -- orig. an East Indian term.  E. Arnold. 
Turned so as to resemble nulls. Nulled work (Cabinetwork), ornamental turned work resembling nulls or beads strung on a rod. 
To make numb; to deprive of the power of sensation or motion; to render senseless or inert; to deaden; to benumb; to stupefy. For lazy winter numbs the laboring hand. Dryden. Like dull narcotics, numbing pain. Tennyson. 
The distinction of objects, as one, or more than one (in some languages, as one, or two, or more than two), expressed (usually) by a difference in the form of a word; thus, the singular number and the plural number are the names of the forms of a word indicating the objects denoted or referred to by the word as one, or as more than one. 
One who numbers. 
Number; -- often abbrev. No. 
A dolt; a blockhead. [Obs.] Bp. Parker. 
In Greenland, an insular hill or mountain surrounded by an ice sheet. 
The act of nuncupating. [Obs.] 
Same as Nupson. [Obs.] 
A genus of plants found in the fresh-water ponds or lakes of Europe, Asia, and North America; the yellow water lily. Cf. Nymphaea. 
A simpleton; a fool. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A hard knot in wood; also, a hard knob of wood used by boys in playing hockey. I think I'm as hard as a nur, and as tough as whitleather. W. Howitt. 
To cut with reeding or fluting on the edge of, as coins, the heads of screws, etc.; to knurl. 
A lieutenant or first officer, who is the real commander when the captain is unfit for his place. 
See Houndfish. 
One who nurses; a nurse; one who cherishes or encourages growth. 
To fondle; to cherish. [Obs.] 
The fruit of certain trees and shrubs (as of the almond, walnut, hickory, beech, filbert, etc.), consisting of a hard and indehiscent shell inclosing a kernel. 
To gather nuts. 
Nodding; having the top bent downward. 
A small nut; also, the stone of a drupe. 
The kernel of the fruit of the nutmeg tree (Myristica fragrans), a native of the Molucca Islands, but cultivated elsewhere in the tropics. 
The fur of the coypu. See Coypu. 
A gatherer of nuts. 
The seed of Strychnos Nuxvomica, a tree which abounds on the Malabar and Coromandel coasts of the East Indies. From this seed the deadly poisons known as strychnine and brucine are obtained. The seeds are sometimes called Quaker buttons. 
To nestle; to house, as in a nest. 
To hide the head, as a child in the mother's bosom; to nestle. 
See Nias. 
A brood or flock of pheasants. 
A goddess of the mountains, forests, meadows, or waters. Where were ye, nymphs, when the remorseless deep Closed o'er the head of your loved Lycidas Milton. 
Same as Nymph, 3. 
Is not. See Nis. Chaucer. Spenser. 
A species of ichneumon (Herpestes nyula). Its fur is beautifully variegated by closely set zigzag markings. 
See Woad. [Obs.] Coles. 
Originally, an elf's child; a changeling left by fairies or goblins; hence, a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an idiot. 
Like an oaf; simple. -- Oaf"ish*ness, n. 
Any tree or shrub of the genus Quercus. The oaks have alternate leaves, often variously lobed, and staminate flowers in catkins. The fruit is a smooth nut, called an acorn, which is more or less inclosed in a scaly involucre called the cup or cupule. There are now recognized about three hundred species, of which nearly fifty occur in the United States, the rest in Europe, Asia, and the other parts of North America, a very few barely reaching the northern parts of South America and Africa. Many of the oaks form forest trees of grand proportions and live many centuries. The wood is usually hard and tough, and provided with conspicuous medullary rays, forming the silver grain. 
Made or consisting of oaks or of the wood of oaks. "In oaken bower." Milton. Oaken timber, wherewith to build ships. Bacon. 
See Ocher. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Resembling oak; strong. Bp. Hall. 
An oarlike swimming organ of various invertebrates. Oar cock (Zoöl), the water rail. [Prov. Eng.] -- Spoon oar, an oar having the blade so curved as to afford a better hold upon the water in rowing. -- To boat the oars, to cease rowing, and lay the oars in the boat. -- To feather the oars. See under Feather., v. t. -- To lie on the oars, to cease pulling, raising the oars out of water, but not boating them; to cease from work of any kind; to be idle; to rest. -- To muffle the oars, to put something round that part which rests in the rowlock, to prevent noise in rowing. -- To put in one's oar, to give aid or advice; -- commonly used of a person who obtrudes aid or counsel not invited. -- To ship the oars, to place them in the rowlocks. -- To toss the oars, To peak the oars, to lift them from the rowlocks and hold them perpendicularly, the handle resting on the bottom of the boat. -- To trail oars, to allow them to trail in the water alongside of the boat. -- To unship the oars, to take them out of the rowlocks. 
To row. "Oared himself." Shak. Oared with laboring arms. Pope. 
The ribbon fish. 
Having the form or the use of an oar; as, the swan's oary feet. Milton. Addison. 
A fertile or green spot in a waste or desert, esp. in a sandy desert. 
A kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle. Mortimer. 
An appeal (in verification of a statement made) to a superior sanction, in such a form as exposes the party making the appeal to an indictment for perjury if the statement be false. 
See Obi. 
To draw over, as a covering. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 
To draw over; to cover. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
To harden. [Obs.] Milton. 
See Obi. 
Same as Obi. -- a. 
A mark [thus ---, or ÷]; -- so called as resembling a needle. In old MSS. or editions of the classics, it marks suspected passages or readings. 
The king of the fairies, and husband of Titania or Queen Mab. Shak. 
Excessively corpulent; fat; fleshy. 
To give obedience. Will he obey when one commands Tennyson. 
One who yields obedience. Holland. 
Belief in, or the practice of, the obi superstitions and rites. 
In passing; incidentally; by the way. Obiter dictum (Law), an incidental and collateral opinion uttered by a judge. See Dictum, n., 2(a). 
To make opposition in words or argument; -- usually followed by to. Sir. T. More. 
A word, phrase, or clause toward which an action is directed, or is considered to be directed; as, the object of a transitive verb. Object glass, the lens, or system of lenses, placed at the end of a telescope, microscope, etc., which is toward the object. Its office is to form an image of the object, which is then viewed by the eyepiece. Called also objective. See Illust. of Microscope. -- Object lesson, a lesson in which object teaching is made use of. -- Object staff. (Leveling) Same as Leveling staff. -- Object teaching, a method of instruction, in which illustrative objects are employed, each new word or idea being accompanied by a representation of that which it signifies; -- used especially in the kindergarten, for young children. 
Opposed; presented in opposition; also, exposed. [Obs.] 
Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblate spheroid. 
The quality or state of being oblate. 
One who makes an offering as an act worship or reverence. Dr. H. More. 
The person to whom another is bound, or the person to whom a bond is given. Blackstone. 
Indistinct; slurred over. [Obs.] "Obscure and oblite mention." Fuller. 
Having greater length than breadth, esp. when rectangular. 
A rectangular figure longer than it is broad; hence, any figure longer than it is broad. The best figure of a garden I esteem an oblong upon a descent. Sir W. Temple. 
One of the higher wind instruments in the modern orchestra, yet of great antiquity, having a penetrating pastoral quality of tone, somewhat like the clarinet in form, but more slender, and sounded by means of a double reed; a hautboy. Oboe d'amore Etym: [It., lit., oboe of love], and Oboe di caccia Etym: [It., lit., oboe of the chase], are names of obsolete modifications of the oboe, often found in the scores of Bach and Handel. 
A performer on the oboe. 
A weight of twelve grains; or, according to some, of ten grains, or half a scruple. [Written also obol.] 
A copper coin, used in the Ionian Islands, about one cent in value. 
Obversely omegoid. 
Obovate. 
That quality in words or things which presents what is offensive to chasity or purity of mind; obscene or impure lanquage or acts; moral impurity; lewdness; obsceneness; as, the obscenity of a speech, or a picture. Mr.Cowley asserts plainly, that obscenity has no place in wit. Dryden. No pardon vile obscenity should find. Pope. 
To besiege; to beset. Sir T. Elyot. 
To seal; to confirm, as by a seal or stamp. [Obs.] Bradford. 
Capable of being obtained. 
The act of darkening; the state of being darkened; darkness. [Obs.] In every megrim or vertigo, there is an obtenebration joined with a semblance of turning round. Bacon. 
To protest. [R.] E. Waterhouse. 
To reduce the edge, pungency, or violent action of; to dull; to blunt; to deaden; to quell; as, to obtund the acrimony of the gall. [Archaic] Harvey. They...have filled all our law books with the obtunding story of their suits and trials. Milton. 
Having an obtuse angle; as, an obtuse-angled triangle. 
To turn toward. If its base be obverted towards us. I. Watts. 
See Obi. 
A Peruvian name for certain species of Oxalis (O. crenata, and O. tuberosa) which bear edible tubers. 
An alloy imitating gold or silver. [Written also ochimy, ochymy, etc.] 
Hidden from the eye or the understanding; inviable; secret; concealed; unknown. It is of an occult kind, and is so insensible in its advances as to escape observation. I. Taylor. Occult line (Geom.), a line drawn as a part of the construction of a figure or problem, but not to appear in the finished plan. -- Occult qualities, those qualities whose effects only were observed, but the nature and relations of whose productive agencies were undetermined; -- so called by the schoolmen. -- Occult sciences, those sciences of the Middle Ages which related to the supposed action or influence of occult qualities, or supernatural powers, as alchemy, magic, necromancy, and astrology. 
To eclipse; to hide from sight. 
Occurring or happening; hence, incidental; accidental. 
Of or pertaining to the main or great sea; as, the ocean waves; an ocean stream. Milton. 
An American feline carnivore (Felis pardalis). It ranges from the Southwestern United States to Patagonia. It is covered with blackish ocellated spots and blotches, which are variously arranged. The ground color varies from reddish gray to tawny yellow. 
Ocherous. [Written also ochrey, ochry.] 
See Occamy. 
See Ocher. 
A greave or legging. 
See Ochery. 
See Ochery. 
See Occamy. 
See Okra. 
See Ochrea. 
An atom or radical which has a valence of eight, or is octavalent. 
Any one of a group of metametric hydrocarcons (C8H18) of the methane series. The most important is a colorless, volatile, inflammable liquid, found in petroleum, and a constituent of benzene or ligroin. 
The eighth part of a circle; an arc of 45 degrees. 
The first two stanzas of a sonnet, consisting of four verses each; a stanza of eight lines. With mournful melody it continued this octave. Sir P. Sidney. Double octave. (Mus.) See under Double. -- Octave flute (Mus.), a small flute, the tones of which range an octave higher than those of the German or ordinary flute; -- called also piccolo. See Piccolo. 
Consisting of eight; eight. Dryden. 
A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eight leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 8vo or 8º. 
Having eight leaves to a sheet; as, an octavo form, book, leaf, size, etc. 
Same as Octylene. 
A composition for eight parts, usually for eight solo instruments or voices. 
Of the eighth degree or order. -- n. (Alg.) 
Same as Octant, 2. [R.] 
Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, octane; -- used specifically, to designate any one of a group of acids, the most important of which is called caprylic acid. 
A hypothetical radical (C8H15O), regarded as the essential residue of octoic acid. 
See Octet. [R.] 
A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of octane, and as entering into its derivatives; as, octyl alcohol. 
Of or pertaining to the eye; optic. 
The eyepiece of an optical instrument, as of a telescope or microscope. 
A round window, usually a small one. 
Among the early and medieval Teutonic peoples, esp. Scandinavians, the heritable land held by the various odalmen constituting a family or kindred of freeborn tribesmen; also, the ownership of such land. The odal was subject only to certain rights of the family or kindred in restricting the freedom of transfer or sale and giving certain rights of redemption in case of change of ownership by inheritance, etc., and perhaps to other rights of the kindred or the tribe. Survivals of the early odal estates and tenure exist in Orkney and Shetland, where it is usually called by the variant form udal. 
Noting, or pert. to, odal land or ownership. 
A member of a secret order, or fraternity, styled the Independent Order of Odd Fellows, established for mutual aid and social enjoyment. 
In a manner measured by an odd number. 
A short poetical composition proper to be set to music or sung; a lyric poem; esp., now, a poem characterized by sustained noble sentiment and appropriate dignity of style. Hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies on brambles. Shak. O! run; prevent them with thy humble ode, And lay it lowly at his blessed feet. Milton. Ode factor, one who makes, or who traffics in, odes; -- used contemptuously. 
A little or short ode. 
A kind of theater in ancient Greece, smaller than the dramatic theater and roofed over, in which poets and musicians submitted their works to the approval of the public, and contended for prizes; -- hence, in modern usage, the name of a hall for musical or dramatic performances. 
See Odeon. 
Fitted to excite hatred; hateful. [Obs.] Bale. 
Of or pertaining to od. See Od. [Archaic] -- Od"ic*al*ly, adv. 
The supreme deity of the Scandinavians; -- the same as Woden, of the German tribes. There in the Temple, carved in wood, The image of great Odin stood. Longfellow. 
Of or pertaining to Odin. 
A writer of an ode or odes. 
To charge with od. See Od. [Archaic] 
A volatile liquid obtained by boiling sulphur with linseed oil. It has an unpleasant garlic odor. 
Any smell, whether fragrant or offensive; scent; perfume. Meseemed I smelt a garden of sweet flowers, That dainty odors from them threw around. Spenser. To be in bad odor, to be out of favor, or in bad repute. 
A corruption of God's; -- formerly used in oaths and ejaculatory phrases. "Ods bodikin." "Ods pity." Shak. 
Of or pertaining to odyle; odic; as, odylic force. [Archaic] 
The colorless porous framework, or stroma, of red blood corpuscles from which the zooid, or hemoglobin and other substances of the corpuscles, may be dissolved out. 
A swelling from effusion of watery fluid in the cellular tissue beneath the skin or mucous membrance; dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. [Written also edema.] 
An eye, bud, or shoot, as of a plant; an oilet. [Obs.] Holland. 
In a general sense, denoting from or away from; as: 
Away; begone; -- a command to depart. 
Not on; away from; as, to be off one's legs or off the bed; two miles off the shore. Addison. Off hand. See Offhand. -- Off side (Football), out of play; -- said when a player has got in front of the ball in a scrimmage, or when the ball has been last touched by one of his own side behind him. -- To be off color, to be of a wrong color. -- To be off one's food, to have no appetite. (Colloq.) 
The side of the field that is on the right of the wicket keeper. 
A portion ofthe printed sheet, in certain sizes of books, that is cut off before folding. 
To oppose or obstruct in duty; to cause to stumble; to cause to sin or to fall. [Obs.] Who hath you misboden or offended. Chaucer. If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out... And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off. Matt. v. 29, 3O. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Ps. cxix. 165. 
An offender. [R.] Holland. 
Capable of being offered; suitable or worthy to be offered. 
The apartments or outhouses in which the domestics discharge the duties attached to the service of a house, as kitchens, pantries, stables, etc. [Eng.] As for the offices, let them stand at distance. Bacon. 
To perform, as the duties of an office; to discharge. [Obs.] Shak. 
That part of the sea at a good distance from the shore, or where there is deep water and no need of a pilot; also, distance from the shore; as, the ship had ten miles offing; we saw a ship in the offing. 
Shy or distant in manner. [Colloq. U.S.] 
A pipe to let off water. 
In general, that which is set off, from, before, or against, something; as: -- 
To make an offset. 
Often; frequently; not rarely; many times. [Poetic] Chaucer. Oft she rejects, but never once offends. Pope. 
Frequent; often; repeated. [Poetic] 
Frequently; many times; not seldom. 
Frequent; common; repeated. [R.] "Thine often infirmities." 1 Tim. v. 23. And weary thee with often welcomes. Beau. & Fl. 
Compar. of Oft. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Ogham. 
A thing made up of eight parts. Milman. 
A molding, the section of which is the form of the letter S, with the convex part above; cyma reversa. See Illust. under Cyma. 
A particular kind of writing practiced by the ancient Irish, and found in inscriptions on stones, metals, etc. [Written also ogam.] 
The arch or rib which crosses a Gothic vault diagonally. 
To view or look at with side glances, as in fondness, or with a design to attract notice. And ogling all their audience, ere they speak. Dryden. 
An amorous side glance or look. Byron. 
One who ogles. Addison. 
See Olio. 
An imaginary monster, or hideous giant of fairy tales, who lived on human beings; hence, any frightful giant; a cruel monster. His schoolroom must have resembled an ogre's den. Maccaulay. 
A female ogre. Tennyson. 
The standard unit in the measure of electrical resistance, being the resistance of a circuit in which a potential difference of one volt produces a current of one ampére. As defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893, and by United States Statute, it is a resistance substantially equal to 109 units of resistance of the C.G.S. system of electro-magnetic units, and is represented by the resistance offered to an unvarying electric current by a column of mercury at the temperature of melting ice 14.4521 grams in mass, of a constant cross-sectional area, and of the length of 106.3 centimeters. As thus defined it is called the international ohm. Ohm's law (Elec.), the statement of the fact that the strength or intensity of an electrical current is directly proportional to the electro-motive force, and inversely proportional to the resistance of the circuit. 
An exclamation of surprise, etc. 
A genus of minute fungi which form a floccose mass of filaments on decaying fruit, etc. Many forms once referred to this genus are now believed to be temporary conditions of fungi of other genera, among them the vine mildew (Oïdium Tuckeri), which has caused much injury to grapes. 
Any one of a great variety of unctuous combustible substances, not miscible with water; as, olive oil, whale oil, rock oil, etc. They are of animal, vegetable, or mineral origin and of varied composition, and they are variously used for food, for solvents, for anointing, lubrication, illumination, etc. By extension, any substance of an oily consistency; as, oil of vitriol. 
To smear or rub over with oil; to lubricate with oil; to anoint with oil. 
Covered or treated with oil; dressed with, or soaked in, oil. Oiled silk, silk rendered waterproof by saturation with boiled oil. 
The business, the place of business, or the goods, of a maker of, or dealer in, oils. 
One who deals in oils; formerly, one who dealt in oils and pickles. 
The buffalo nut. See Buffalo nut, under Buffalo. 
Ointment. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To anoint. [Obs.] Dryden. 
A spring, surrounded by rushes or rank grass; an oasis. [Southwestern U.S.] Bartlett. 
A peculiar mammal (Okapia johnostoni) closely related to the giraffe, discovered in the deep forests of Belgian Kongo in 1900. It is smaller than an ox, and somewhat like a giraffe, except that the neck is much shorter. Like the giraffe, it has no dewclaws. There is a small prominence on each frontal bone of the male. The color of the body is chiefly reddish chestnut, the cheeks are yellowish white, and the fore and hind legs above the knees and the haunches are striped with purplish black and cream color. 
A massive and fibrous mineral of a whitish color, chiefly hydrous silicate of lime. 
See Ocher. 
An annual plant (Abelmoschus, or Hibiscus, esculentus), whose green pods, abounding in nutritious mucilage, are much used for soups, stews, or pickles; gumbo. [Written also ocra and ochra.] 
Palm leaves, prepared for being written upon with a style pointed with steel. [Written also ola.] Balfour (Cyc. of India). 
Open country. [Obs.] See World. Shak. 
Virginia; -- a name of uncertain origin, perh. from the old designation of the colony as "the Colony and Dominion of Virginia." 
Old; ancient; as, the olden time. "A minstrel of the olden stamp." J. C. Shairp. 
To grow old; to age. [R.] She had oldened in that time. Thackeray. 
Somewhat old. 
A genus of trees including the olive. 
A salt of oleic acid. Some oleates, as the oleate of mercury, are used in medicine by way of inunction. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, oil; as, oleic acid, an acid of the acrylic acid series found combined with glyceryl in the form of olein in certain animal and vegetable fats and oils, such as sperm oil, olive oil, etc. At low temperatures the acid is crystalline, but melts to an oily liquid above 14 
A fat, liquid at ordinary temperatures, but solidifying at temperatures below 0° C., found abundantly in both the animal and vegetable kingdoms (see Palmitin). It dissolves solid fats, especially at 30-40° C. Chemically, olein is a glyceride of oleic acid; and, as three molecules of the acid are united to one molecule of glyceryl to form the fat, it is technically known as triolein. It is also called elain. 
Scented. [R.] R. Browning. 
An oily liquid, obtained by distillation of calcium oleate, and probably consisting of the ketone of oleic acid. 
The European bullfinch. [Prov.Eng.] 
See Olibanum. 
A collection of miscellaneous pieces. 
A genus of polished marine gastropod shells, chiefly tropical, and often beautifully colored. 
An olivary body. See under Olivary. 
Approaching the color of the olive; of a peculiar dark brownish, yellowish, or tawny green. 
Decorated or furnished with olive trees. [R.] T. Warton. 
An olive grove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A small tilt hammer, worked by the foot. 
A white crystalline substance, obtained from an exudation from the olive, and having a bitter-sweet taste and acid proporties. [Written also olivile.] Gregory. 
A complex bitter gum, found on the leaves of the olive tree; -- called also olivite. 
A colloquial or humorous name for any science or branch of knowledge. He had a smattering of mechanics, of physiology, geology, mineralogy, and all other ologies whatsoever. De Quincey. 
Originally, a leather flask or vessel for oils or liquids; afterward, an earthenware vase or pitcher without a spout. 
Gout in the shoulder. 
A tribe of Indians who inhabited the south side of the Missouri River. They are now partly civilized and occupy a reservation in Nebraska. 
The third division of the stomach of ruminants. See Manyplies, and Illust. under Ruminant. 
A large Mediterranean food fish (Umbrina cirrhosa): -- called also umbra, and umbrine. 
Having the form of the Greek capital letter Omega ( 
Eggs beaten up with a little flour, etc., and cooked in a frying pan; as, a plain omelet. 
An occurrence supposed to portend, or show the character of, some future event; any indication or action regarded as a foreshowing; a foreboding; a presage; an augury. Bid go with evil omen, and the brand Of infamy upon my name. Milton. 
To divine or to foreshow by signs or portents; to have omens or premonitions regarding; to predict; to augur; as, to omen ill of an enterprise. The yet unknown verdict, of which, however, all omened the tragical contents. Sir W. Scott. 
Attended by, or containing, an omen or omens; as, happy-omened day. 
A Hebrew measure, the tenth of an ephah. See Ephah. Ex. xvi. 36. 
The act of omitting, or the state of being omitted; forbearance; neglect. Shak. 
To render universal; to enlarge. [R.] Omnify the disputed point into a transcendent, and you may defy the opponent to lay hold of it. Coleridge. 
The aggregate value of the different stocks in which a loan to government is now usually funded. M'Culloch. 
Mellow, as land. [Prov.Eng.] Ray. 
A military engine acting like a sling, which threw stones from a bag or wooden bucket, and was operated by machinery. Fairholt. 
The dauw. 
A nocturnal South American monkey (Callithrix discolor), noted for its agility; -- called also ventriloquist monkey. 
The ounce. 
A genus of tropical orchidaceous plants, the flower of one species of which (O. Papilio) resembles a butterfly. 
In cost accounting, expenditure which is involved in the process of manufacture or the performance of work and which cannot be charged directly to any particular article manufactured or work done (as where different kinds of goods are produced), but must be allocated so that each kind of goods or work shall bear its proper share. [Brit.] 
Hatred; fury; envy. [Obs.] 
Any person, indefinitely; a person or body; as, what one would have well done, one should do one's self. It was well worth one's while. Hawthorne. Against this sort of condemnation one must steel one's self as one best can. G. Eliot. 
To cause to become one; to gather into a single whole; to unite; to assimilite. [Obs.] The rich folk that embraced and oned all their heart to treasure of the world. Chaucer. 
See Only. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Once. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Scarcely. See Unnethe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A liliaceous plant of the genus Allium (A.cepa), having a strong-flavored bulb and long hollow leaves; also, its bulbous root, much used as an article of food. The name is often extended to other species of the genus. Onion fish (Zoöl.), the grenadier. -- Onion fly (Zoöl.) a dipterous insect whose larva feeds upon the onion; especially, Anthomyia ceparum and Ortalis flexa. -- Welsh onion. (Bot.) See Cibol. -- Wild onion (Bot.), a name given to several species of the genus Allium. 
Aloft; above ground. [Obs.] She kept her father's life onloft. Chaucer. 
Save or except (that); -- an adversative used elliptically with or without that, and properly introducing a single fact or consideration. He might have seemed some secretary or clerk . . . only that his low, flat, unadorned cap . . . indicated that he belonged to the city. Sir W. Scott. 
A rushing onward. 
A single farmhouse; a steading. [Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Grose. Jamieson. 
On the top of; upon; on. See On to, under On, prep. 
A burden; an obligation. Onus probandi ( Etym: [L.], obligation to furnish evidence to prove a thing; the burden of proof. 
Toward a point before or in front; forward; progressively; as, to move onward. Not one looks backward, onward still he goes. Pope. 
Any. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Divination by the nails. 
Chalcedony in parallel layers of different shades of color. It is used for making cameos, the figure being cut in one layer with the next as a ground. Onyx marble, a banded variety of marble or calcium carbonate resembling onyx. It is obtained from Mexico. 
Shaped like an egg. 
Oak. [Obs.] "A branched ook." Chaucer. 
A fragrant variety of black tea having somewhat the flavor of green tea. [Written also oulong.] 
One. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Once. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To bind with a thread or cord; to join; to unite. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
To cause to ooze. Alex. Smith. 
Miry; containing soft mud; resembling ooze; as, the oozy bed of a river. Pope. 
A large oceanic fish (Lampris quttatus), inhabiting the Atlantic Ocean. It is remarkable for its brilliant colors, which are red, green, and blue, with tints of purple and gold, covered with round silvery spots. Called also king of the herrings. 
See Opaque. 
A mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, but inferior to quartz in hardness and specific gravity. 
That which is opaque; opacity. Young. 
Open. [Poetic] Spenser. On Sunday heaven's gate stands ope. Herbert. 
To open. [Poetic] Wilt thou not ope thy heart to know What rainbows teach and sunsets show Emerson. 
A bright-colored European actinian (Anemonia, or Anthea, sulcata); -- so called because it does not retract its tentacles. 
Open or unobstructed space; clear land, without trees or obstructions; open ocean; open water. "To sail into the open." Jowett (Thucyd. ). Then we got into the open. W. Black. In open, in full view; without concealment; openly. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
To bark on scent or view of the game. 
One who, or that which, opens. "True opener of my eyes." Milton. 
Having the mouth open; gaping; hence, greedy; clamorous. L'Estrange. 
Practicable. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to a serpent. [Obs.] 
A greenish spotted porphyry, being a diabase whose pyroxene has been altered to uralite; -- first found in the Pyreness. So called from the colored spots which give it a mottled appearance. -- O*phi"ic, a. 
A mamber of a Gnostic serpent-worshiping sect of the second century. 
Inducing sleep; somniferous; narcotic; hence, anodyne; causing rest, dullness, or inaction; as, the opiate rod of Hermes. Milton. 
To subject to the influence of an opiate; to put to sleep. [R.] Fenton. 
Opium. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To have an opinion; to judge; to think; to suppose. South. 
One who opines. Jer. Taylor. 
The inspissated juice of the Papaver somniferum, or white poppy. 
To oppose. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Not to be effectually opposed; irresistible. [Obs.] "Your great opposeless wills." Shak. 
To fight against; to attack; to be in conflict with; to oppose; to resist. They said the manner of their impeachment they could not but conceive did oppugn the rights of Parliament. Clarendon. 
To choose; to wish for; to desire. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 
By optics or sight; with reference to optics. Optically active, Optically inactive (Chem. Physics), terms used of certain metameric substances which, while identical with each other in other respects, differ in this, viz., that they do or do not produce right-handed or left-handed circular polarization of light. -- Optically positive, Optically negative. See under Refraction. 
That branch of physical science which treats of the nature and properties of light, the laws of its modification by opaque and transparent bodies, and the phenomena of vision. 
One of those who stand in the second rank of honors, immediately after the wranglers, in the University of Cambridge, England. They are divided into senior and junior optimes. 
A right formerly belonging to an archbishop to select any one dignity or benefice in the gift of a suffragan bishop consecrated or confirmed by him, for bestowal by himself when next vacant; -- annulled by Parliament in 1845. 
A work; specif. (Mus.), a musical composition. 
Opium. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A money of account among the Anglo-Saxons, valued, in the Domesday Book, at twenty pence sterling. 
The sanctuary, or Most Holy place in the temple; also, the temple itself. 1 Kings vi. 19. Siloa's brook, that flow'd Fast by the oracle of God. Milton. 
To utter oracles. [Obs.] 
See Orang-outang. 
The tree that bears oranges; the orange tree. 
Of or pertaining to an orange; of the color of an orange; reddish yellow; as, an orange ribbon. 
An officer who is the voice of the university upon all public occasions, who writes, reads, and records all letters of a public nature, presents, with an appropriate address, those persons on whom honorary degrees are to be conferred, and performs other like duties; -- called also public orator. 
A blank window or panel. [Obs.] Oxf. Gloss. 
A body of soldiers drawn up in a circle, as for defense, esp. infantry to repel cavalry. 
To become round like an orb. [Poetic] And orb into the perfect star. Tennyson. 
Bereaved; fatherless; childless. [Obs.] 
Having the form of an orb; round. The orbèd eyelids are let down. Trench. 
The path described by a heavenly body in its periodical revolution around another body; as, the orbit of Jupiter, of the earth, of the moon. 
Orblike; having the course of an orb; revolving. [Obs.] "Orby hours." Chapman. 
The grampus. [Written also ork and orch.] Milton. 
A reddish brown amorphous dyestuff, 
See Archil. 
Archil. 
Any plant of the order Orchidaceæ. See Orchidaceous. 
See Archil. 
A genus of endogenous plants growing in the North Temperate zone, and consisting of about eighty species. They are perennial herbs growing from a tuber (beside which is usually found the last year's tuber also), and are valued for their showy flowers. See Orchidaceous. 
A colorless crystalline substance, C6H3.CH3.(OH)2, which is obtained from certain lichens (Roccella, Lecanora, etc.), also from extract of aloes, and artificially from certain derivatives of toluene. It changes readily into orcein. 
An edge or point; also, a beginning. [ Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Ord and end, the beginning and end. Cf. Odds and ends, under Odds. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Halliwell. 
To invest with ministerial or sacerdotal functions; to introduce into the office of the Christian ministry, by the laying on of hands, or other forms; to set apart by the ceremony of ordination. Meletius was ordained by Arian bishops. Bp. Stillingfleet. 
Ordeal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal. 
The disposition of a column and its component parts, and of the entablature resting upon it, in classical architecture; hence (as the column and entablature are the characteristic features of classical architecture) a style or manner of architectural designing. 
To admit to holy orders; to ordain; to receive into the ranks of the ministry. These ordered folk be especially titled to God. Chaucer. Persons presented to be ordered deacons. Bk. of Com. Prayer. Order arms (Mil.), the command at which a rifle is brought to a position with its but resting on the ground; also, the position taken at such a command. 
To give orders; to issue commands. 
Of or pertaining to ordure; filthy. Drayton. 
Honor; grace; favor; mercy; clemency; happy augry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A native metal or its compound with the rock in which it occurs, after it has been picked over to throw out what is worthless. 
One of the nymphs of mountains and grottoes. Like a wood nymph light, Oread or Dryad. Milton. 
See Oroide. 
The osprey. [Obs.] Holland. 
See Argol. [Obs.] 
A natural part or structure in an animal or a plant, capable of performing some special action (termed its function), which is essential to the life or well-being of the whole; as, the heart, lungs, etc., are organs of animals; the root, stem, foliage, etc., are organs of plants. 
To supply with an organ or organs; to fit with organs; to organize. [Obs.] Thou art elemented and organed for other apprehensions. Bp. Mannyngham. 
See Origan. 
Eager or immoderate excitement or action; the state of turgescence of any organ; erethism; esp., the height of venereal excitement in sexual intercourse. 
A sirup in which, formerly, a decoction of barley entered, but which is now prepared with an emulsion of almonds, -- used to flavor beverages or edibles. 
See Organling. 
Proud; haughty. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Orgillous. [Obs.] 
A frantic revel; drunken revelry. See Orgies 
A genus of bombycid moths whose caterpillars (esp. those of Orgyia leucostigma) are often very injurious to fruit trees and shade trees. The female is wingless. Called also vaporer moth. 
A bay window. See Bay window. The beams that thro' the oriel shine Make prisms in every carven glass. Tennyson. 
Of or pertaining to the orient or east; eastern; concerned with the East or Orientalism; -- opposed to occidental; as, Oriental countries. The sun's ascendant and oriental radiations. Sir T. Browne. 
The point of attachment or end of a muscle which is fixed during contraction; -- in contradistinction to insertion. Origin of coördinate axes (Math.), the point where the axes intersect. See Note under Ordinate. 
See Oriel. 
A large and bright constellation on the equator, between the stars Aldebaran and Sirius. It contains a remarkable nebula visible to the naked eye. The flaming glories of Orion's belt. E. Everett. 
A prayer; a supplication. [Poetic] Chaucer. Shak. Lowly they bowed, adoring, and began Their orisons, each morning duly paid. Milton. 
See Orc. 
A bearing, in the form of a fillet, round the shield, within, but at some distance from, the border. 
A wind instrument of music in use among the Spaniards. 
The lowest deck of a vessel, esp. of a ship of war, consisting of a platform laid over the beams in the hold, on which the cables are coiled. 
An abalone. 
A variety of brass made to resemble gold by the use of less zinc and more copper in its composition than ordinary brass contains. Its golden color is often heightened by means of lacquer of some sort, or by use of acids. Called also mosaic gold. Ormolu varnish, a varnish applied to metals, as brass, to give the appearance of gold. 
The good principle, or being, of the ancient Persian religion. See Ahriman. 
To ornament; to adorn. [Obs.] Joye. 
To adorn; to honor. [R.] They may ornate and sanctify the name of God. Latimer. 
An alloy, chiefly of copper and zinc or tin, resembling gold in color and brilliancy. [Written also oreide.] 
A child bereaved of both father and mother; sometimes, also, a child who has but one parent living. Orphans' court (Law), a court in some of the States of the Union, having jurisdiction over the estates and persons of orphans or other wards. Bouvier. 
Bereaved of parents, or (sometimes) of one parent. 
To cause to become an orphan; to deprive of parents. Young. 
Pertaining to Orpheus; Orphean; as, Orphic hymns. 
The orpine. 
A low plant with fleshy leaves (Sedum telephium), having clusters of purple flowers. It is found on dry, sandy places, and on old walls, in England, and has become naturalized in America. Called also stonecrop, and live-forever. [Written also orpin.] 
See Orach. 
An apparatus which illustrates, by the revolution of balls moved by wheelwork, the relative size, periodic motions, positions, orbits, etc., of bodies in the solar system. 
A plant of the genus Iris (I. Florentina); a kind of flower-de- luce. Its rootstock has an odor resembling that of violets. Orris pea (Med.), an issue pea made from orris root. -- Orris root, the fragrant rootstock of the orris. 
A sort of gold or silver lace. Johnson. 
A morsel left at a meal; a fragment; refuse; -- commonly used in the plural. Milton. Let him have time a beggar's orts to crave. Shak. 
A brachiopod shell of the genus Orthis, and allied genera, of the family Orthidæ. 
An extinct genus of Brachiopoda, abundant in the Paleozoic rocks. 
Of or relating to the time or act of rising; eastern; as, the ortive amplitude of a planet. 
A kind of sage (Salvia Horminum). 
The blindworm. 
A genus of African antelopes which includes the gemsbok, the leucoryx, the bisa antelope (O. beisa), and the beatrix antelope (O. beatrix) of Arabia. 
A genus of grasses including the rice plant; rice. 
A tribe of southern Sioux Indians, now living in the Indian Territory. 
Hosanna. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See 3d Os. 
Of or pertaining to the Osci, a primitive people of Campania, a province of ancient Italy. -- n. 
Relating to the Oscines. 
One of the excurrent apertures of sponges. 
Made of osiers; composed of, or containing, osiers. "This osier cage of ours." Shak. 
An osier bed. 
One of the principal divinities of Egypt, the brother and husband of Isis. He was figured as a mummy wearing the royal cap of Upper Egypt, and was symbolized by the sacred bull, called Apis. Cf. Serapis. -- O*sir"i*an, a. 
A salt of osmic acid. [Formerly written also osmiate.] 
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, osmium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a valence higher than in other lower compounds; as, osmic oxide. Osmic acid. (Chem.) (a) Osmic tetroxide. [Obs.] (b) Osmic acid proper, an acid analogous to sulphuric acid, not known in the free state, but forming a well-known and stable series of salts (osmates), which were formerly improperly called osmites. -- Osmic tetroxide (Chem.), a white volatile crystalline substance, OsO4, the most stable and characteristic of the compounds of osmium. It has a burning taste, and gives off a vapor, which is a powerful irritant poison, violently attacking the eyes, and emitting a strong chlorinelike odor. Formerly improperly called osmic acid. 
A salt of osmious acid. 
A rare metallic element of the platinum group, found native as an alloy in platinum ore, and in iridosmine. It is a hard, infusible, bluish or grayish white metal, and the heaviest substance known. Its tetroxide is used in histological experiments to stain tissues. Symbol Os. Atomic weight 191.1. Specific gravity 22.477. 
Osmose. 
A fern of the genus Osmunda, or flowering fern. The most remarkable species is the osmund royal, or royal fern (Osmunda regalis), which grows in wet or boggy places, and has large bipinnate fronds, often with a panicle of capsules at the top. The rootstock contains much starch, and has been used in stiffening linen. 
To prophesy; to presage. [R. & Obs.] R. Edgeworth. 
A prophetic or ominous utterance. [R. & Obs.] Holland. 
A fish having a bony skeleton; a teleost. 
The organic basis of bone tissue; the residue after removal of the mineral matters from bone by dilute acid; in embryonic tissue, the substance in which the mineral salts are deposited to form bone; -- called also ostein. Chemically it is the same as collagen. 
To form into bone; to change from a soft animal substance into bone, as by the deposition of lime salts. 
To become bone; to change from a soft tissue to a hard bony tissue. 
See Oast. 
Osseous. 
Ossein. 
To exhibit; to manifest. [Obs.] Mercy to mean offenders we'll ostend. J. Webster. 
To make an ambitious display of; to show or exhibit boastingly. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 
Pertaining to, or applied to, the language of the Tuscaroras, Iroquois, Wyandots, Winnebagoes, and a part of the Sioux Indians. Schoolcraft. 
An opening; a passage. 
See Hostler. 
East men; Danish settlers in Ireland, formerly so called. Lyttelton. 
A genus of bivalve Mollusca which includes the true oysters. 
Pain in the ear; otalgia. 
Any eared seal. 
Either; -- used with other or or for its correlative (as either . . . or are now used). [Obs.] Other of chalk, other of glass. Chaucer. 
Otherwise. "It shall none other be." Chaucer. "If you think other." Shak. 
See Ottoman. 
Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the ear; auricular; auditory. 
Being at leisure or ease; unemployed; indolent; idle. "Otiose assent." Paley. The true keeping of the Sabbath was not that otiose and unAlford. 
A genus of birds including the bustards. 
Inflammation of the ear. 
See Attar. 
Any carnivorous animal of the genus Lutra, and related genera. Several species are described. They have large, flattish heads, short ears, and webbed toes. They are aquatic, and feed on fish. Their fur is soft and valuable. The common otter of Europe is Lutra vulgaris; the American otter is L. Canadensis; other species inhabit South America and Asia. 
A corruption of Annotto. 
See Attar. 
A socket or bezel holding a precious stone; hence, a jewel or ornament worn on the person. A precious stone in a rich ouche. Sir T. Elyot. Your brooches, pearls, and ouches. Shak. 
Own. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Aught. 
The state of being as a thing ought to be; rightness. [R.] N. W. Taylor. 
An awl. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An owl. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The twelfth part of a troy pound. 
A feline quadruped (Felis irbis, or uncia) resembling the leopard in size, and somewhat in color, but it has longer and thicker fur, which forms a short mane on the back. The ounce is pale yellowish gray, with irregular dark spots on the neck and limbs, and dark rings on the body. It inhabits the lofty mountain ranges of Asia. Called also once. 
A fairy; a goblin; an elf. [Obs.] "Like urchins, ouphes, and fairies." Shak. 
Elfish. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our country; our rights; our troops; our endeavors. See I. The Lord is our defense. Ps. lxxxix. 18. 
The orang-outang. 
A small, graceful, and swift African antelope, allied to the klipspringer. 
See Note under Our. 
See Ooze. [Obs.] 
One of several species of European thrushes, especially the blackbird (Merula merula, or Turdus merula), and the mountain or ring ousel (Turdus torquatus). [Written also ouzel.] Rock ousel (Zoöl.), the ring ousel. -- Water ousel (Zoöl.), the European dipper (Cinclus aquaticus), and the American dipper (C. Mexicanus). 
See Oast. 
A putting out of possession; dispossession; ejection; disseizin. Ouster of the freehold is effected by abatement, intrusion, disseizin, discontinuance, or deforcement. Blackstone. Ouster le main. Etym: [Ouster + F. la main the hand, L. manus.] (Law) A delivery of lands out of the hands of a guardian, or out of the king's hands, or a judgement given for that purpose. Blackstone. 
In its original and strict sense, out means from the interior of something; beyond the limits or boundary of somethings; in a position or relation which is exterior to something; -- opposed to in or into. The something may be expressed after of, from, etc. (see Out of, below); or, if not expressed, it is implied; as, he is out; or, he is out of the house, office, business, etc.; he came out; or, he came out from the ship, meeting, sect, party, etc. Out is used in a variety of applications, as: -- 
A word or words omitted by the compositor in setting up copy; an omission. To make an out (Print.), to omit something, in setting or correcting type, which was in the copy. 
To come or go out; to get out or away; to become public. "Truth will out." Shak. 
Expressing impatience, anger, a desire to be rid of; -- with the force of command; go out; begone; away; off. Out, idle words, servants to shallow fools ! Shak. Out upon or on! equivalent to "shame upon!" "away with!" as, out upon you! 
To do or beyond; to exceed in acting. [R.] He has made me heir to treasures Would make me outact a real window's whining. Otway. 
To bar out. [R.] Spenser. 
To surpass in begging. [R.] 
To exceed or surpass in bidding. Prevent the greedy, and outbid the bold. Pope. 
To excel in bowing. Young. 
To sprout. [Poetic] Spenser. 
To surpass in daring; to overcome by courage; to brave. Shak. R. Browning. 
To go beyond in performance; to excel; to surpass. An imposture outdoes the original. L' Estrange. I grieve to be outdone by Gay. Swift. 
Being on the outside; external; farthest or farther from the interior, from a given station, or from any space or position regarded as a center or starting place; -- opposed to inner; as, the outer wall; the outer court or gate; the outer stump in cricket; the outer world. Outer bar, in England, the body of junior (or utter) barristers; -- so called because in court they occupy a place beyond the space reserved for Queen's counsel. 
One who puts out, ousts, or expels; also, an ouster; dispossession. [R.] 
A fitting out, or equipment, as of a ship for a voyage, or of a person for an expedition in an unoccupied region or residence in a foreign land; things required for equipment; the expense of, or allowance made for, equipment, as by the government of the United States to a diplomatic agent going abroad. 
To surpass in flying; to fly beyond or faster than. Shak. Winged with fear outflies the wind. Waller. 
That which goes out, or is paid out; outlay; expenditure; -- the opposite of Ant: income. Lowell. 
Other. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To surpass in jesting; to drive out, or away, by jesting. [R.] Shak. 
That which jets out or projects from anything. [R.] H. Miller. 
A person excluded from the benefit of the law, or deprived of its protection. Blackstone. 
To lay out; to spread out; to display. [R.] Drayton. 
To surpass in leaping. 
The place or opening by which anything is let out; a passage out; an exit; a vent. Receiving all, and having no outlet. Fuller. 
To let out; to emit. [R.] Daniel. 
To exceed in lying. Bp. Hall. 
That which is thrown out as products of the metabolic activity of the body; the egesta other than the fæces. See Income. 
To outshine. [R.] Skelton. 
To spread out in array. [Obs.] And now they outray to your fleet. Chapman. 
Being out of the common course or limits; extravagant; bizarre. 
To exceed, or leave behind, in running; to run faster than; to outstrip; to go beyond. Your zeal outruns my wishes. Sir W. Scott. The other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulcher. Jhon xx. 4. 
To see beyond; to excel in cer 
A setting out, starting, or beginning. "The outset of a political journey." Burke. Giving a proper direction to this outset of life. J. Hawes. 
To remain sitting, or in session, longer than, or beyond the time of; to outstay. 
To overtop. [Obs.] 
To exceed in vying. Dryden. 
A way out; exit. [R.] In divers streets and outways multiplied. P. Fletcher. 
To win a way out of. [Obs.] 
To surpass in wisdom, esp. in cunning; to defeat or overreach by superior craft. They did so much outwit and outwealth us ! Gauden. 
The faculty of acquiring wesdom by observation and experience, or the wisdom so acquired; -- opposed to inwit. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
To exceed in woe. [Obs.] 
See Ooze. [Obs.] 
Same as Ousel. The mellow ouzel fluted in the elm. Tennyson. 
See Ovum. 
Broadly elliptical. Oval chuck (Mech.), a lathe chuck so constructed that work attached to it, and cut by the turning tool in the usual manner, becomes of an oval form. 
A body or figure in the shape of an egg, or popularly, of an ellipse. Cassinian oval (Geom.), the locus of a point the product of whose distances from two fixed points is constant; -- so called from Cassini, who first investigated the curve. Thus, in the diagram, if P moves so that P A.P B is constant, the point P describes a Cassinian oval. The locus may consist of a single closed line, as shown by the dotted line, or of two equal ovals about the points A and B. 
In an oval form. 
Exultant. [Obs.] Holland. 
That part of the pistil which contains the seed, and in most flowering plants develops into the fruit. See Illust. of Flower. 
Having the shape of an egg, or of the longitudinal sectior of an egg, with the broader end basal. Gray. 
Ovate. 
A place arched over with brick or stonework, and used for baking, heating, or drying; hence, any structure, whether fixed or portable, which may be heated for baking, drying, etc.; esp., now, a chamber in a stove, used for baking or roasting. 
Upper; covering; higher; superior; also, excessive; too much or too great; -- chiefly used in composition; as, overshoes, overcoat, over-garment, overlord, overwork, overhaste. 
A certain number of balls (usually four) delivered successively from behind ine wicket, after which the ball is bowled from behing the other wicket as many times, the fielders changing places. 
To labor too hard; to do too much. 
To gorge to excess. 
In an overly manner. [Archaic] 
Not covert; open; public; manifest; as, an overt act of treason. Macaulay. No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open court. Constitution of the U. S. 
See Ovine. 
Of or pertaining to sheep; consisting of sheep. 
The old theory that the egg contains the whole embryo of the future organism and the germs of all subsequent offsprings and is merely awakened to activity by the spermatozoön; -- opposed to spermism or animalculism. 
Same as Ovulist. 
A solid resembling an egg in shape. 
A round, convex molding. See Illust. of Column. 
Relating or belonging to an ovule; as, an ovular growth. 
Producing ovules. 
An ovule. 
A more or less spherical and transparent mass of granular protoplasm, which by a process of multiplication and growth develops into a mass of cells, constituting a new individual like the parent; an egg, spore, germ, or germ cell. See Illust. of Mycropyle. 
See Ouch. [Obs.] Speser. 
Equal. [Obs.] Burrill. 
Equality; -- sometimes written ovelty and ovealty. Burrill. 
Own. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Anywhere. [Obs.] "If he found owher a good fellow." Chaucer. 
Any cpecies of raptorial birds of the family Strigidæ. They have large eyes and ears, and a conspicuous circle of feathers around each eye. They are mostly nocturnal in their habits. 
One who owls; esp., one who conveys contraband goods. See Owling, n. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] T. Brown. 
An abode or a haunt of owls. 
A small owl; especially, the European species (Athene noctua), and the California flammulated owlet (Megascops flammeolus). Owlet moth (Zoöl.), any noctuid moth. 
The offense of transporting wool or sheep out of England contrary to the statute formerly existing. Blackstone. 
Resembling, or characteristic of, an owl. 
Affected wisdom; pompous dellness. [R.] 
To grant; to acknowledge; to admit to be true; to confess; to recognize in a particular character; as, we own that we have forfeited your love. The wakeful bloodhound rose, and shook his hide owns. Keats. 
Belonging to; belonging exclusively or especially to; peculiar; -- most frequently following a possessive pronoun, as my, our, thy, your, his, her, its, their, in order to emphasize or intensify the idea of property, peculiar interest, or exclusive ownership; as, my own father; my own composition; my own idea; at my own price. "No man was his own [i. e., no man was master of himself, or in possession of his senses]." Shak. To hold one's own, to keep or maintain one's possessions; to yield nothing; esp., to suffer no loss or disadvantage in a contest. Shak. 
To hold as property; to have a legal or rightful title to; to be the proprietor or possessor of; to possess; as, to own a house. 
One who owns; a rightful proprietor; one who has the legal or rightful title, whether he is the possessor or not. Shak. 
The aurohs. [Obs.] 
See Oxyacid. 
A complex nitrogenous substance C3N3H5O3 obtained from alloxan (or when urea is fused with ethyl oxamate), as a stable white crystalline powder; -- called also oxaluramide. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, sorrel, or oxalis; specifically, designating an acid found in, and characteristic of, oxalis, and also certain plant of the Buckwheat family. Oxalic acid (Chem.), a dibasic acid, existing combined in oxalis as an acid potassium oxalate, and in many plant tissues as the calcium oxalate. It is prepared on a large scale, by the action of fused caustic soda or potash on sawdust, as a white crystalline substance, which has a strong acid taste, and is poisonous in large doses. It is used in dyeing, calico printing, bleaching flax and straw, the preparation of formic acid, and in salts of lemon for removing ink stains, mold, etc. 
A genus of plants,mostly herbs, with acid-tasting trifoliolate or multifoliolate leaves; -- called also wood sorrel. 
A salt of oxamic acid. 
Pertaining to, or designating, an acid NH2.C2O2.HO obtained as a fine crystalline powder, intermediate between oxalic acid and oxamide. Its ammonium salt is obtained by boiling oxamide with ammonia. 
A poisonous bulbous plant (Buphane toxicaria) of the Cape of Good Hope. 
The cow blackbird. [Local, U. S.] 
A frame of wood, bent into the shape of the letter U, and embracing an ox's neck as a kind of collar, the upper ends passing through the bar of the yoke; also, anything so shaped, as a bend in a river. 
Having large, full eyes, like those of an ox. Burton. 
The gadfly of cattle. 
Of or pertaining to the city or university of Oxford, England. Oxford movement. See Tractarianism. -- Oxford School, a name given to those members of the Church of England who adopted the theology of the so-called Oxford "Tracts for the Times," issued the period 1833 -- 1841. Shipley. -- Oxford tie, a kind of shoe, laced on the instep, and usually covering the foot nearly to the ankle. 
See Bovate. 
A goad for driving oxen. 
Literally, the head of an ox (emblem of cuckoldom); hence, a dolt; a blockhead. Dost make a mummer of me, oxhead Marston. 
Same as Bear's-foot. 
A measure of land. See 3d Hide. 
See Oxide. 
A binary compound of oxygen with an atom or radical, or a compound which is regarded as binary; as, iron oxide, ethyl oxide, nitrogen oxide, etc. 
One of a series of isonitroso derivatives obtained by the action of hydroxylamine on aldehydes or ketones. 
Characteristic of, or like, an ox. 
The great cowslip (Primula veris, var. elatior). 
Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid (C4H5N3O4) not known in the free state, but obtained, in combination with its salts, by a slow oxidation of uric acid, to which it is related. 
A shoe for oxen, consisting of a flat piece of iron nailed to the hoof. 
The armpit; also, the arm. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A colorless, tasteless, odorless, gaseous element occurring in the free state in the atmosphere, of which it forms about 23 per cent by weight and about 21 per cent by volume, being slightly heavier than nitrogen. Symbol O. Atomic weight 15.96. 
A triangle having three acute angles. 
A mixture of honey, water, vinegar, and spice, boiled to a sirup. Sir T. Elyot. 
A hearing or an inspection, as of a deed, bond, etc., as when a defendant in court prays oyer of a writing. Blackstone. Oyer and terminer (Law), a term used in England in commissions directed to judges of assize about to hold court, directing them to hear and determine cases brought before them. In the U.S. the phrase is used to designate certain criminal courts. 
Hear; attend; -- a term used by criers of courts to secure silence before making a proclamation. It is repeated three times. [Written also oyes.] 
Same as Oillet. 
Onion. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any marine bivalve mollusk of the genus Ostrea. They are usually found adhering to rocks or other fixed objects in shallow water along the seacoasts, or in brackish water in the mouth of rivers. The common European oyster (Ostrea edulis), and the American oyster (Ostrea Virginiana), are the most important species. 
A discharge of fetid matter from the nostril, particularly if associated with ulceration of the soft parts and disease of the bones of the nose. 
A colorless gaseous substance (O 
Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, ozone. 
A toll for passage over another person's grounds. [Written also peage and pedage.]  Burke. 
The zebra. [S. Africa] 
The Easter festival. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 
Pace [Obs.]  Chaucer 
A kind of moccasin, having the edges of the sole turned up and sewed to the upper. Knight. 
A small South American rodent (Cologenys paca), having blackish brown fur, with four parallel rows of white spots along its sides; the spotted cavy. It is nearly allied to the agouti and the Guinea pig. 
A species of hickory. See Pecan. 
Appeased; pacified; tranquil. [R.] 
One who, or that which, paces; especially, a horse that paces. 
The fragrant roots of the Saussurea Costus, exported from India to China, and used for burning as incense. It is supposed to be the costus of the ancients. [Written also putchuck.] 
To make to be at peace; to appease; to calm; to still; to quiet; to allay the agitation, excitement, or resentment of; to tranquillize; as, to pacify a man when angry; to pacify pride, appetite, or importunity. "Pray ye, pacify yourself." Shak. 
To envelop in a wet or dry sheet, within numerous coverings. See Pack, n., 5. 
A person whose business is to pack things; especially, one who packs food for preservation; as, a pork packer. 
To ply with a packet or dispatch boat. 
An agreement; a league; a compact; a covenant. Bacon. The engagement and pact of society whish goes by the name of the constitution. Burke. 
A South American freah-water fish (Myleies pacu), of the family Characinidæ. It is highly esteemed as food. 
To travel upon foot; to tread. [Obs.] Padding the streets for half a crown. Somerville. 
A cushionlike thickening of the skin one the under side of the toes of animals. 
To imbue uniformly with a mordant; as, to pad cloth. Ure. 
Groats; coarse flour or meal. [Obs.] Sir. H. Wotton. 
The uniform impregnation of cloth with a mordant. 
A paddle-shaped foot, as of the sea turtle. 
Low; mean; boorish; vagabond. "Such pady persons." Digges (1585). "The paddy persons." Motley. 
A jocose or contemptuous name for an Irishman. 
Unhusked rice; -- commonly so called in the East Indies. Paddy bird. (Zoöl.) See Java sparrow, under Java. 
The barn owl; -- called also pudge, and pudge owl. [Prov. Eng.] 
An ambling nag. "An easy padnag." Macaulay. 
A paddock, or toad. Padow pipe. (Bot.) See Paddock pipe, under Paddock. 
A rich and heavy silk stuff. [Written also padesoy.] 
Pedobaptism. 
A foot of four syllables, one long and three short, admitting of four combinations, according to the place of the long syllable. [Written also, less correctly, pæan.] 
See Peony. 
One who worships false goods; an idolater; a heathen; one who is neither a Christian, a Mohammedan, nor a Jew. Neither having the accent of Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man. Shak. 
Of or pertaining to pagans; relating to the worship or the worshipers of false goods; heathen; idolatrous, as, pagan tribes or superstitions. And all the rites of pagan honor paid. Dryden. 
A track along which pallets carrying newly molded bricks are conveyed to the hack. 
To attend (one) as a page. [Obs.] Shak. 
The type set up for printing a page. 
To mark or number the pages of, as a book or manuskript; to furnish with folios. 
The surface of a leaf or of a flattened thallus. 
The marking or numbering of the pages of a book. 
A gold or silver coin, of various kinds and values, formerly current in India. The Madras gold pagoda was worth about three and a half rupees. 
Any one of several species of East Indian viverrine mammals of the genus Paguma. They resemble a weasel in form. 
An exclamation expressing disgust or contempt. See Bah. Fie! fie! fie! pah! pah! Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to sweeten my imagination. Shak. 
A kind of stockaded intrenchment. [New Zealand.] Farrow. 
A large war canoe of the Society Islands. 
The science or art of teaching. 
Pagan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A species of Primula, either the cowslip or the primrose. [Written also pagle, pagil, peagle, and pygil.] 
A vessel of wood or tin, etc., usually cylindrical and having a bail, -- used esp. for carrying liquids, as water or milk, etc.; a bucket. It may, or may not, have a cover. Shak. 
Specifically, the throes or travail of childbirth. She bowed herself and travailed, for her pains came upon her. 1 Sam. iv. 19. 
Causing pain; painful. [Obs.] The manacles of Astyages were not . . . the less weighty and painable for being composed of gold or silver. Evelyn. 
A pagan; an infidel; -- used also adjectively. [Written also panim and paynim.] Peacham. 
Labor; toilsome effort; care or trouble taken; -- plural in form, but used with a singular or plural verb, commonly the former. And all my pains is sorted to no proof. Shak. The pains they had taken was very great. Clarendon. The labored earth your pains have sowed and tilled. Dryden. 
Marked with bright colors; as, the painted turtle; painted bunting. Painted beauty (Zoöl.), a handsome American butterfly (Vanessa Huntera), having a variety of bright colors, -- Painted cup (Bot.), any plant of an American genus of herbs (Castilleia) in which the bracts are usually bright-colored and more showy than the flowers. Castilleia coccinea has brilliantly scarlet bracts, and is common in meadows. -- Painted finch. See Nonpareil. -- Painted lady (Zoöl.), a bright-colored butterfly. See Thistle butterfly. -- Painted turtle (Zoöl.), a common American freshwater tortoise (Chrysemys picta), having bright red and yellow markings beneath. 
Unskillfully painted, so that the painter's method of work is too obvious; also, having too much pigment applied to the surface. [Cant] 
In a mechanism, two elements, or bodies, which are so applied to each other as to mutually constrain relative motion. 
To impair. [Obs.] Spenser. 
One who impairs. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
The country; the people of the neighborhood. 
See Poise. Chapman. 
A peacock. [Obs.] Shak. 
A mate; a partner; esp., an accomplice or confederate. [Slang] 
Palatial. [Obs.] Graunt. 
A membrane extending between the toes of a bird, and uniting them more or less closely together. 
The roof of the mouth. 
To perceive by the taste. [Obs.] Shak. 
Paleness; pallor. [R.] Shak. 
To turn pale; to lose color or luster. Whittier. Apt to pale at a trodden worm. Mrs. Browning. 
To make pale; to diminish the brightness of. The glowpale his uneffectual fire. Shak. 
One of the greater ordinaries, being a broad perpendicular stripe in an escutcheon, equally distant from the two edges, and occupying one third of it. 
To inclose with pales, or as with pales; to encircle; to encompass; to fence off. [Your isle, which stands] ribbed and paled in With rocks unscalable and roaring waters. Shak. 
A pendulous process of the skin on the throat of a bird, as in the turkey; a dewlap. 
An extinct order of sea urchins found in the Paleozoic rocks. They had more than twenty vertical rows of plates. Called also Palæechini. [Written also Palæechinoidea.] 
In a pale manner; dimly; wanly; not freshly or ruddily. Thackeray. 
Same as Palea. 
A perpendicular band upon an escutcheon, one half the breadth of the pale. 
pl. of Palus. 
A dialect descended from Sanskrit, and like that, a dead language, except when used as the sacred language of the Buddhist religion in Farther India, etc. 
See Palingenesis. 
Somewhat pale or wan. 
A palanquin. Malcom. 
Same as Pawl. 
Same as Pallium. About this time Pope Gregory sent two archbishop's palls into England, -- the one for London, the other for York. Fuller. 
To cloak. [R.] Shak 
To become vapid, tasteless, dull, or insipid; to lose strength, life, spirit, or taste; as, the liquor palls. Beauty soon grows familiar to the lover, Fades in the eye, and palls upon the sense. Addisin. 
Nausea. [Obs.] Shaftesbury. 
An oblong rectangular piece of cloth, worn by Roman ladies, and fastened with brooches. 
A large South African antelope (Æpyceros melampus). The male has long lyrate and annulated horns. The general color is bay, with a black crescent on the croup. Called also roodebok. 
Pallas Athene, the Grecian goddess of wisdom, called also Athene, and identified, at a later period, with the Roman Minerva. 
A small and mean bed; a bed of straw. Milton. 
Same as Palette. 
Deficient in color; pale; wan; as, a pallid countenance; pallid blue. Spenser. 
Paleness; want of color; pallidity; as, pallor of the complexion. Jer. Taylor. 
The inner and somewhat concave part of the hand between the bases of the fingers and the wrist. Clench'd her fingers till they bit the palm. Tennyson. 
Any endogenous tree of the order Palmæ or Palmaceæ; a palm tree. 
Of or pertaining to palms; of the nature of, or resembling, palms. 
Pertaining to, or corresponding with, the palm of the hand. 
Having or bearing a palm or palms. Paimed deer (Zoöl.), a stag of full growth, bearing palms. See lst Palm, 4. 
One who palms or cheats, as at cards or dice. 
A wandering religious votary; especially, one who bore a branch of palm as a token that he had visited the Holy Land and its sacred places. Chaucer. Pilgrims and palmers plighted them together. P. Plowman. The pilgrim had some home or dwelling place, the palmer had none. The pilgrim traveled to some certain, designed place or places, but the palmer to all. T. Staveley. 
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi); -- formerly used to designate an acid now called ricinoleic acid. [Obsoles.] 
Web-footed, as a water fowl. -- n. 
A species of palm (Borassus flabelliformis) having a straight, black, upright trunk, with palmate leaves. It is found native along the entire northern shores of the Indian Ocean, from the mouth of the Tigris to New Guinea. More than eight hundred uses to which it is put are enumerated by native writers. Its wood is largely used for building purposes; its fruit and roots serve for food, its sap for making toddy, and its leaves for thatching huts. 
A pole or timber of any kind; -- in the names of trees. [Sp. Amer.] 
An annelid (Palola viridis) which, at certain seasons of the year, swarms at the surface of the sea about some of the Pcific Islands, where it is collected for food. 
Same as Palpus. 
To have a distinct touch or feeling of; to feel. [Obs.] To bring a palpèd darkness o'er the earth. Heywood. 
Having a palpus. 
pl. of Palpus. (Zoöl.) See Palpus. 
A feeler; especially, one of the jointed sense organs attached to the mouth organs of insects, arachnids, crustaceans, and annelids; as, the mandibular palpi, maxillary palpi, and labial palpi. The palpi of male spiders serve as sexual organs. Called also palp. See Illust. of Arthrogastra and Orthoptera. 
Paralysis, complete or partial. See Paralysis. "One sick of the palsy." Mark ii. 3. Bell's palsy, paralysis of the facial nerve, producing distortion of one side of the face; -- so called from Sir Charles Bell, an English surgeon who described it. -- Scrivener's palsy. See Writer's cramp, under Writer. -- Shaking palsy, paralysis agitans, a disease usually occurring in old people, characterized by muscular tremors and a peculiar shaking and tottering gait. 
To affect with palsy, or as with palsy; to deprive of action or energy; to paralyze. 
To trifle with; to waste; to squander in paltry ways or on worthless things. [Obs.] "Palter out your time in the penal statutes." Beau. & Fl. 
Mean; vile; worthless; despicable; contemptible; pitiful; trifling; as, a paltry excuse; paltry gold. Cowper. The paltry prize is hardly worth the cost. Byron. 
See Palulus or Palus. 
One of several upright slender calcareous processes which surround the central part of the calicle of certain corals. 
Pale; wanting color; dim. [Poetic] Shak. Whittier. 
Divided into four or more equal parts by perpendicular lines, and of two different tinctures disposed alternately. 
The knave of clubs. [Obs.] Pope. 
A pavement. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Vast plains in the central and southern part of the Argentine Republic in South America. The term is sometimes used in a wider sense for the plains extending from Bolivia to Southern Patagonia. Pampas cat (Zoöl.), a South American wild cat (Felis pajeros). It has oblique transverse bands of yellow or brown. It is about three and a half feet long. Called also straw cat. -- Pampas deer (Zoöl.), a small, reddish-brown, South American deer (Cervus, or Blastocerus, campestris). -- Pampas grass (Bot.), a very tall ornamental grass (Gynerium argenteum) with a silvery-white silky panicle. It is a native of the pampas of South America. 
Fed luxuriously; indulged to the full; hence, luxuriant. "Pampered boughs." Milton. "Pampered insolence." Pope. -- Pam"pered*ness, n. Bp. Hall. 
An ornament, composed of vine leaves and bunches of grapes, used for decorating spiral columns. 
The distance comprised between the angle of the epaule and the flanked angle. 
To join or fit together; to unite. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
The betel leaf; also, the masticatory made of the betel leaf, etc. See . 
The god of shepherds, guardian of bees, and patron of fishing and hunting. He is usually represented as having the head and trunk of a man, with the legs, horns, and tail of a goat, and as playing on the shepherd's pipe, which he is said to have invented. 
A closed vessel for boiling or evaporating. See Vacuum pan, under Vacuum. 
To separate, as gold, from dirt or sand, by washing in a kind of pan. [U. S.] We . . . witnessed the process of cleaning up and panning out, which is the last process of separating the pure gold from the fine dirt and black sand. Gen. W. T. Sherman. 
To yield gold in, or as in, the process of panning; -- usually with out; as, the gravel panned out richly. 
A dagger. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to bread or to breadmaking. 
A storehouse for bread. Halliwell. 
The pansy. [Also paunce.] 
See Paunch. 
See Pansy. [Obs.] Dryden. 
A small Asiatic mammal (Ailurus fulgens) having fine soft fur. It is related to the bears, and inhabits the mountains of Northern India. 
Same as Pander. "Seized by the pandar of Appius." Macaulay. 
To play the pander for. 
To act the part of a pander. 
See Pundit. 
The narrow edge of a hammer head. See Peen. 
Having flat sides or surfaces; as, a sixpaned nut. 
A sunken compartment with raised margins, molded or otherwise, as in ceilings, wainscotings, etc. 
To form in or with panels; as, to panel a wainscot. Paneled back (Arch.), the paneled work covering the window back. See Window back. 
Enough to fill a pan. 
A paroxysm of extreme pain or anguish; a sudden and transitory agony; a throe; as, the pangs of death. 
To torture; to cause to have great pain or suffering; to torment. [R.] Shak. 
A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass; also, the edible grain of some species of panic grass. Panic grass (Bot.), any grass of the genus Panicum. 
Extreme or sudden and causeless; unreasonable; -- said of fear or fright; as, panic fear, terror, alarm. "A panic fright." Dryden. 
See Panic, a. [Obs.] Camden. 
See Pannier, 3. [Obs.] 
See Painim. [Obs.] Milton. 
A fabric resembling velvet, but having the nap flat and less close. 
The stomach of a hawk. Ainsworth. 
A very vascular superficial opacity of the cornea, usually caused by granulation of the eyelids. Foster. 
A plant of the genus Viola (V. tricolor) and its blossom, originally purple and yellow. Cultivated varieties have very large flowers of a great diversity of colors. Called also heart's-ease, love-in-idleness, and many other quaint names. 
See Pan-. 
One who pants. Congreve. 
A keeper of the pantry; a pantler. [Obs.] Tyndale. 
A net; a noose. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A horseshoe to correct a narrow, hoofbound heel. 
An apartment or closet in which bread and other provisions are kept. 
See Panim. [Obs.] 
An old Italian silver coin, worth about ten cents. 
A nipple; a mammilla; a teat. Dryden. The paps which thou hast sucked. Luke xi. 27. 
To feed with pap. Beau. & Fl. 
The upland plover. [Local, U. S.] 
See Popinjay, 1 (b). 
A proteolytic ferment, like trypsin, present in the juice of the green fruit of the papaw (Carica Papaya) of tropical America. 
A papist. [Obs.] Baxter. 
A tree (Carica Papaya) of tropical America, belonging to the order Passifloreæ. It has a soft, spongy stem, eighteen or twenty feet high, crowned with a tuft of large, long-stalked, palmately lobed leaves. The milky juice of the plant is said to have the property of making meat tender. Also, its dull orange-colored, melon- shaped fruit, which is eaten both raw and cooked or pickled. 
A spiritual father; specifically, the pope. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to paper; made of paper; resembling paper; existing only on paper; unsubstantial; as, a paper box; a paper army. 
See under Paper, n. 
Like paper; having the thinness or consistence of paper. Gray. 
A female pope; i. e., the fictitious pope Joan. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
A West African baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx), allied to the chacma. Its color is generally chestnut, varying in tint. 
Popery; -- an offensive term. Milton. 
A Roman catholic; one who adheres to the Church of Rome and the authority of the pope; -- an offensive designation applied to Roman Catholics by their opponents. 
The hairy or feathery appendage of the achenes of thistles, dandelions, and most other plants of the order Compositæ; also, the scales, awns, or bristles which represent the calyx in other plants of the same order. 
Like pap; soft; succulent; tender. Ray. 
Of or pertaining to Papua. 
A pimple; a small, usually conical, elevation of the cuticle, produced by congestion, accumulated secretion, or hypertrophy of tissue; a papule. Quain. 
Same as Papula. 
See Pasch and Easter. 
See Parr. 
By; with; -- used frequently in Early English in phrases taken from the French, being sometimes written as a part of the word which it governs; as, par amour, or paramour; par cas, or parcase; par fay, or parfay. 
A prefix denoting: (a) Likeness, similarity, or connection, or that the substance resembles, but is distinct from, that to the name of which it is prefixed; as paraldehyde, paraconine, etc.; also, an isomeric modification. (b) Specifically: (Organ. Chem.) That two groups or radicals substituted in the benzene nucleus are opposite, or in the respective positions 1 and 4; 2 and 5; or 3 and 6, as paraxylene; paroxybenzoic acid. Cf. Ortho-, and Meta-. Also used adjectively. 
A piece of Turkish money, usually copper, the fortieth part of a piaster, or about one ninth of a cent. 
An assembly and orderly arrangement or display of troops, in full equipments, for inspection or evolutions before some superior officer; a review of troops. Parades are general, regimental, or private (troop, battery, or company), according to the force assembled. 
An example of a conjugation or declension, showing a word in all its different forms of inflection. 
Equality of condition, blood, or dignity; also, equality in the partition of an inheritance. Spelman. 
See Apparel. [Obs.] "In the parail of a pilgrim." Piers Plowman. 
A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C2H4N4); -- called also dicyandiamide. 
A high, bleak plateau or district, with stunted trees, and cold, damp atmosphere, as in the Andes, in South America. 
A flourish made with the pen at the end of a signature. In the Middle Ages, this formed a sort of rude safeguard against forgery. Brande & C. 
To add a paraph to; to sign, esp. with the initials. 
The Fates. See Fate, 4. 
A part; a portion; a piece; as, a certain piece of land is part and parcel of another piece. 
Part or half; in part; partially. Shak. [Sometimes hyphened with the word following.] The worthy dame was parcel-blind. Sir W. Scott. One that . . . was parcel-bearded [partially bearded]. Tennyson. Parcel poet, a half poet; a poor poet. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To become scorched or superficially burnt; to be very dry. "Parch in Afric sun." Shak. 
A leopard; a panther. And more pinch-spotted make them Than pard or cat o'mountain. Shak. 
A money of account in Goa, India, equivalent to about 2s. 6d. sterling. or 60 cts. 
A release, by a sovereign, or officer having jurisdiction, from the penalties of an offense, being distinguished from amenesty, which is a general obliteration and canceling of a particular line of past offenses. 
-- Forgiveness, Pardon. Forgiveness is Anglo-Saxon, and pardon Norman French, both implying a giving back. The word pardon, being early used in our Bible, has, in religious matters, the same sense as forgiveness; but in the language of common life there is a difference between them, such as we often find between corresponding Anglo-Saxon and Norman words. Forgive points to inward feeling, and suppose alienated affection; when we ask forgiveness, we primarily seek the removal of anger. Pardon looks more to outward things or consequences, and is often applied to trifling matters, as when we beg pardon for interrupting a man, or for jostling him in a crowd. The civil magistrate also grants a pardon, and not forgiveness. The two words are, therefore, very clearly distinguished from each other in most cases which relate to the common concerns of life. 
Mitigating; assuaging or soothing pain; as, paregoric elixir. 
Descent from parents or ancestors; parents or ancestors considered with respect to their rank or character; extraction; birth; as, a man of noble parentage. "Wilt thou deny thy parentage" Shak. Though men esteem thee low of parentage. Milton. 
One who, or that which, pares; an instrument for paring. 
By my faith; verily. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Perfect. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A plasterer. Johnson. 
See Pair royal, under Pair, n. 
Of or pertaining to Paros, an island in the Ægean Sea noted for its excellent statuary marble; as, Parian marble. Parian chronicle, a most ancient chronicle of the city of Athens, engraved on marble in the Isle of Paros, now among the Arundelian marbles. 
Same as Artiodactyla. 
The triangular middle part of each segment of the shell of a barnacle. 
Pinnate with an equal number of leaflets on each side; having no odd leaflet at the end. 
A plant common in Europe (Paris quadrifolia); herb Paris; truelove. It has been used as a narcotic. 
The chief city of France. Paris green. See under Green, n. -- Paris white (Chem.), purified chalk used as a pigment; whiting; Spanish white. 
Of or pertaining to a parish; parochial; as, a parish church; parish records; a parish priest; maintained by the parish; as, parish poor. Dryden. Parish clerk. (a) The clerk or recording officer of a parish. (b) A layman who leads in the responses and otherwise assists in the service of the Church of England. -- Parish court, in Louisiana, a court in each parish. 
The quality or condition of being equal or equivalent; A like state or degree; equality; close correspondence; analogy; as, parity of reasoning. "No parity of principle." De Quincey. Equality of length and parity of numeration. Sir T. Browne. 
A piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant. Mozley & W. 
To bring together in a park, or compact body; as, to park the artillery, the wagons, etc. 
, The keeper of a park. Sir M. Hale. 
To talk; to converse; to parley. [Obs.] Shak. Finding himself too weak, began to parle. Milton. 
Conversation; talk; parley. [Obs.] They ended parle, and both addressed for fight. Milton. 
Mutual discourse or conversation; discussion; hence, an oral conference with an enemy, as with regard to a truce. We yield on parley, but are stormed in vain. Dryden. To beat a parley (Mil.), to beat a drum, or sound a trumpet, as a signal for holding a conference with the enemy. 
To speak with another; to confer on some point of mutual concern; to discuss orally; hence, specifically, to confer orally with an enemy; to treat with him by words, as on an exchange of prisoners, an armistice, or terms of peace. They are at hand, To parley or to fight; therefore prepare. Shak. 
A room for business or social conversation, for the reception of guests, etc. Specifically: (a) The apartment in a monastery or nunnery where the inmates are permitted to meet and converse with each other, or with visitors and friends from without. Piers Plowman. (b) In large private houses, a sitting room for the family and for familiar guests, -- a room for less formal uses than the drawing- room. Esp., in modern times, the dining room of a house having few apartments, as a London house, where the dining parlor is usually on the ground floor. (c) Commonly, in the United States, a drawing-room, or the room where visitors are received and entertained. 
To write a parody upon; to burlesque. I have translated, or rather parodied, a poem of Horace. Pope. 
Oral declaration; word of mouth; also, a writing not under seal. Blackstone. 
Given or done by word of mouth; oral; also, given by a writing not under seal; as, parol evidence. Parol arrest (Law), an arrest in pursuance of a verbal order from a magistrate. -- Parol contract (Law), any contract not of record or under seal, whether oral or written; a simple contract. Chitty. Story. 
A watchword given only to officers of guards; -- distinguished from countersign, which is given to all guards. 
See 2d Parol. 
To set at liberty on parole; as, to parole prisoners. 
Any one of numerous species of small parrots having a graduated tail, which is frequently very long; -- called also paroquet and paraquet. 
In a general sense, any bird of the order Psittaci. 
To repeat by rote, as a parrot. 
To chatter like a parrot. 
To ward off, evade, or turn aside something, as a blow, argument, etc. Locke. 
A warding off of a thrust or blow, as in sword and bayonet exercises or in boxing; hence, figuratively, a defensive movement in debate or other intellectual encounter. 
To resolve into its elements, as a sentence, pointing out the several parts of speech, and their relation to each other by government or agreement; to analyze and describe grammatically. Let him construe the letter into English, and parse it over perfectly. Ascham. 
The religion and customs of the Parsees. 
One who parses. 
A person who represents a parish in its ecclesiastical and corporate capacities; hence, the rector or incumbent of a parochial church, who has full possession of all the rights thereof, with the cure of souls. 
Such portion of any quantity, as when taken a certain number of times, will exactly make that quantity; as, 3 is a part of 12; -- the opposite of multiple. Also, a line or other element of a geometrical figure. 
Partly; in a measure. [R.] Shak. 
An edible British crab. [Prov. Eng.] 
Cleft so that the divisions reach nearly, but not quite, to the midrib, or the base of the blade; -- said of a leaf, and used chiefly in composition; as, three-parted, five-parted, etc. Gray. 
One who, or which, parts or separates. Sir P. Sidney. 
In part; in some measure of degree; not wholly. "I partly believe it." 1 Cor. xi. 18. 
Parted or divided, as in the direction or form of one of the ordinaries; as, an escutcheon party per pale. 
Partly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An ornament or decoration for the person; esp., a decoration consisting of a set of ornaments to be used together; as, a parure of rubies or of embroideries. 
The gemsbok. 
The wild or bezoar goat. See Goat. 
To strike; to crush; to smash; to dash in pieces. [Obs.] P. Plowman. "I'll pash him o'er the face." Shak. 
An honorary title given to officers of high rank in Turkey, as to governers of provinces, military commanders, etc. The earlier form was bashaw. [Written also pacha.] 
See Pasha. 
See Pasch. 
A kind of minuet, in triple time, of French origin, popular in the reign of Queen Elizabeth and for some time after; -- called also passing measure, and passymeasure. Percy Smith. 
See Pasch. Pasque flower (Bot.), a name of several plants of the genus Anemone, section Pulsatilla. They are perennial herbs with rather large purplish blossoms, which appear in early spring, or about Easter, whence the common name. Called also campana. 
To be conveyed or transferred by will, deed, or other instrument of conveyance; as, an estate passes by a certain clause in a deed. Mozley & W. 
To go from one limit to the other of; to spend; to live through; to have experience of; to undergo; to suffer. "To pass commodiously this life." Milton. She loved me for the dangers I had passed. Shak. 
A thrust or push; an attempt to stab or strike an adversary. Shak. 
One who passes; a passenger. 
Here and there; everywhere; as, this word occurs passim in the poem. 
A division or part; a canto; as, the passus of Piers Plowman. See 2d Fit. 
Of or pertaining to a former time or state; neither present nor future; gone by; elapsed; ended; spent; as, past troubles; past offences. "Past ages." Milton. Past master. See under Master. 
A former time or state; a state of things gone by. "The past, at least, is secure." D. Webster. The present is only intelligible in the light of the past, often a very remote past indeed. Trench. 
By; beyond; as, he ran past. The alarum of drums swept past. Longfellow. 
The mineral substance in which other minerals are imbedded. Paste eel (Zoöl.), the vinegar eel. See under Vinegar. 
To unite with paste; to fasten or join by means of paste. 
A plant affording a blue dye; the woad (Isatis tinctoria); also, the dye itself. 
Of or pertaining to Pasteur. 
A species of starling (Pastor roseus), native of the plains of Western Asia and Eastern Europe. Its head is crested and glossy greenish black, and its back is rosy. It feeds largely upon locusts. 
Fit for pasture. 
Like paste, as in color, softness, stickness. "A pasty complexion." G. Eliot. 
A pie consisting usually of meat wholly surrounded with a crust made of a sheet of paste, and often baked without a dish; a meat pie. "If ye pinch me like a pasty." Shak. "Apple pasties." Dickens. A large pasty baked in a pewter platter. Sir W. Scott. 
To strike gently with the fingers or hand; to stroke lightly; to tap; as, to pat a dog. Gay pats my shoulder, and you vanish quite. Pope. 
Exactly suitable; fit; convenient; timely. "Pat allusion." Barrow. 
In a pat manner. I foresaw then 't would come in pat hereafter. Sterne. 
The Spanish dollar; -- called also patacoon. [Obs.] 
A West African long-tailed monkey (Cercopithecus ruber); the red monkey. 
A piece of greased cloth or leather used as wrapping for a rifle ball, to make it fit the bore. 
One who patches or botches. Foxe. 
Full of, or covered with, patches; abounding in patches. 
See Patté. 
A kind of platform with a parapet, usually of an oval form, and generally erected in marshy grounds to cover a gate of a fortified place. [R.] 
Having a pate; -- used only in composition; as, long-pated; shallow-pated. 
See Pattee. 
A large flat-bottomed trading boat peculiar to the river Ganges; -- called also puteli. 
The place on which the consecrated bread is placed in the Eucharist, or on which the host is placed during the Mass. It is usually small, and formed as to fit the chalice, or cup, as a cover. [Written also patin, patine.] 
A paten. 
A grassy expanse in the hill region of Ceylon. 
Open; expanded; evident; apparent; unconcealed; manifest; public; conspicuous. He had received instructions, both patent and secret. Motley. 
To grant by patent; to make the subject of a patent; to secure or protect by patent; as, to patent an invention; to patent public lands. 
A circular ornament, resembling a dish, often worked in relief on friezes, and the like. 
A religious as well as a secular designation applied to rulers of some of the city states of ancient Chaldea, as Lagash or Shirpurla, who were conceived to be direct representatives of the tutelary god of the place. 
To make a path in, or on (something), or for (some one). [R.] "Pathing young Henry's unadvised ways." Drayton. 
To walk or go. [R.] Shak. 
A male who submits to the crime against nature; a catamite. [R.] B. Jonson. 
Passive; suffering. 
That quality or property of anything which touches the feelings or excites emotions and passions, esp., that which awakens tender emotions, such as pity, sorrow, and the like; contagious warmth of feeling, action, or expression; pathetic quality; as, the pathos of a picture, of a poem, or of a cry. The combination of incident, and the pathos of catastrophe. T. Warton. 
The color or incrustation which age gives to works of art; especially, the green rust which covers ancient bronzes, coins, and medals. Fairholt. 
A paved yard or floor where ores are cleaned and sorted, or where ore, salt, mercury, etc., are trampled by horses, to effect intermixture and amalgamation. 
Fitly; seasonably. Barrow. 
A dialect peculiar to the illiterate classes; a provincial form of speech. The jargon and patois of several provinces. Sir T. Browne. 
To go the rounds along a chain of sentinels; to traverse a police district or beat. 
t To go the rounds of, as a sentry, guard, or policeman; as, to patrol a frontier; to patrol a beat. 
See Patrol, n. & v. 
One who has gift and disposition of a benefice. [Eng.] 
To be a patron of; to patronize; to favor. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
Doing the duty of a patron; giving aid or protection; tutelary. Dryden. Patron saint (R. C. Ch.), a saint regarded as the peculiar protector of a country, community, church, profession, etc., or of an individual. 
Wearing pattens. "Some pattened girl." Jane Austen. 
To mutter; as prayers. [The hooded clouds] patter their doleful prayers. Longfellow. To patter flash, to talk in thieves' cant. [Slang] 
One who patters, or talks glibly; specifically, a street peddler. [Cant, Eng.] 
A little pie. 
See Pah. 
See Pawl. 
An Italian silver coin. See Paolo. 
See Tarpaulin. 
To palm off by fraud; to cheat at cards. [Obs.] Swift. 
The pansy. "The pretty paunce." Spenser. 
The belly and its contents; the abdomen; also, the first stomach, or rumen, of ruminants. See Rumen. 
Pot-bellied. [R.] Dickens. 
A kind of bread. See Pone. 
A poor person; especially, one development on private or public charity. Also used adjectively; as, pouper immigrants, pouper labor. 
A hold. See 4th Hold, 7. 
To cause to stop or rest; -- used reflexively. [R.] Shak. 
One who pauses. Shak. 
A curassow (Ourax pauxi), which, in South America, is often domesticated. 
See Pavage. [R.] 
A stately and formal Spanish dance for which full state costume is worn; -- so called from the resemblance of its movements to those of the peacock. [Written also pavane, paven, pavian, and pavin.] 
The pavement. Nymphe du pavé ([A low euphemism.] 
That with which anythingis paved; a floor or covering of solid material, laid so as to make a hard and convenient surface for travel; a paved road or sidewalk; a decorative interior floor of tiles or colored bricks. The riches of heaven's pavement, trodden gold. Milton. Pavement teeth (Zoöl.), flattened teeth which in certain fishes, as the skates and cestracionts, are arranged side by side, like tiles in a pavement. 
See Pavan. 
One who paves; one who lays a pavement. [Written also pavier and pavior.] 
, n. See Pavan. 
Timid; fearful. [R.] Thackeray. 
A paver. 
A glucoside found in species of the genus Pavia of the Horse- chestnut family. 
See Pavan. 
A large shield covering the whole body, carried by a pavisor, who sometimes screened also an archer with it. [Written also pavais, pavese, and pavesse.] Fairholt. 
A genus of birds, including the peacocks. 
A small triangular flag, esp. one attached to a knight's lance; a pennon. 
A peacock. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To draw the forefoot along the ground; to beat or scrape with the forefoot. Job xxxix. 21. 
A small lobster. Travis. 
Arch; cunning; sly. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
A pivoted tongue, or sliding bolt, on one part of a machine, adapted to fall into notches, or interdental spaces, on another part, as a ratchet wheel, in such a manner as to permit motion in one direction and prevent it in the reverse, as in a windlass; a catch, click, or detent. See Illust. of Ratchet Wheel. [Written also paul, or pall.] Pawl bitt (Naut.), a heavy timber, set abaft the windlass, to receive the strain of the pawls. -- Pawl rim or ring (Naut.), a stationary metallic ring surrounding the base of a capstan, having notches for the pawls to catch in. 
To stop with a pawl; to drop the pawls off. To pawl the capstan. See under Capstan. 
See Pan, the masticatory. 
A man or piece of the lowest rank. 
Capable of being pawned. 
One or two whom a pledge is delivered as security; one who takes anything in pawn. 
See Papaw. 
The kiss of peace; also, the embrace in the sanctuary now substituted for it at High Mass in Roman Catholic churches. 
The strong ligament of the back of the neck in quadrupeds. It connects the back of the skull with dorsal spines of the cervical vertebræ, and helps to support the head. Called also paxywaxy and packwax. 
To cover, as bottom of a vessel, a seam, a spar, etc., with tar or pitch, or waterproof composition of tallow, resin, etc.; to smear. 
To give a recompense; to make payment, requital, or satisfaction; to discharge a debt. The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again. Ps. xxxvii. 21. 
A staff corps in the United States navy, consisting of pay directors, pay inspectors, paymasters, passed assistant paymasters, and assistant paymasters, having relative rank from captain to ensign, respectively. 
The person to whom money is to be, or has been, paid; the person named in a bill or note, to whom, or to whose order, the amount is promised or directed to be paid. See Bill of exchange, under Bill. 
Pagan. Etym: [F.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who pays; specifically, the person by whom a bill or note has been, or should be, paid. 
Bread. Having Piers Plowman. 
See Painim. 
See Payer. [R.] 
To poise. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The sliding weight on a steelyard. [Written also pee.] 
See Peak, n., 3. 
A plant, and its fruit, of the genus Pisum, of many varieties, much cultivated for food. It has a papilionaceous flower, and the pericarp is a legume, popularly called a pod. 
A state of quiet or tranquillity; freedom from disturbance or agitation; calm; repose; specifically: (a) Exemption from, or cessation of, war with public enemies. (b) Public quiet, order, and contentment in obedience to law. (c) Exemption from, or subjection of, agitating passions; tranquillity of mind or conscience. (d) Reconciliation; agreement after variance; harmony; concord. "The eternal love and pees." Chaucer. 
To make or become quiet; to be silent; to stop. [R.] "Peace your tattlings." Shak. When the thunder would not peace at my bidding. Shak. 
To accuse of crime; to inform against. [Obs.] Foxe. 
To turn informer; to betray one's accomplice. [Obs. or Colloq.] If I be ta'en, I'll peach for this. Shak. 
A well-known high-flavored juicy fruit, containing one or two seeds in a hard almond-like endocarp or stone; also, the tree which bears it (Prunus, or Amygdalus Persica). In the wild stock the fruit is hard and inedible. Guinea, or Sierra Leone, peach, the large edible berry of the Sarcocephalus esculentus, a rubiaceous climbing shrub of west tropical Africa. -- Palm peach, the fruit of a Venezuelan palm tree (Bactris speciosa). -- Peach color, the pale red color of the peach blossom. -- Peach-tree borer (Zoöl.), the larva of a clearwing moth (Ægeria, or Sannina, exitiosa) of the family Ægeriidæ, which is very destructive to peach trees by boring in the wood, usually near the ground; also, the moth itself. See Illust. under Borer. 
Resembling a peach or peaches. 
A kind of aboriginal shell money, or wampum, of the Atlantic coast of the United States; -- originally applied only to polished white cylindrical beads. 
See Paage. 
The hen or female peafowl. 
To pry; to peep slyly. Shak. Peak arch (Arch.), a pointed or Gothic arch. 
To raise to a position perpendicular, or more nearly so; as, to peak oars, to hold them upright; to peak a gaff or yard, to set it nearer the perpendicular. 
Sickly; not robust. [Colloq.] 
A small salmon; a grilse; a sewin. [Prov. Eng.] 
To appeal. [Obs.] Spencer. 
One of the furs, the ground being sable, and the spots or tufts or. 
A song of praise and triumph. See Pæan. 
The fruit of a trailing leguminous plant (Arachis hypogæa); also, the plant itself, which is widely cultivated for its fruit. 
The fleshy pome, or fruit, of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus communis), cultivated in many varieties in temperate climates; also, the tree which bears this fruit. See Pear family, below. Pear blight. (a) (Bot.) A name of two distinct diseases of pear trees, both causing a destruction of the branches, viz., that caused by a minute insect (Xyleborus pyri), and that caused by the freezing of the sap in winter. A. J. Downing. (b) (Zoöl.) A very small beetle (Xyleborus pyri) whose larvæ bore in the twigs of pear trees and cause them to wither. -- Pear family (Bot.), a suborder of rosaceous plants (Pomeæ), characterized by the calyx tube becoming fleshy in fruit, and, combined with the ovaries, forming a pome. It includes the apple, pear, quince, service berry, and hewthorn. -- Pear gauge (Physics), a kind of gauge for measuring the exhaustion of an air-pump receiver; -- so called because consisting in part of a pear-shaped glass vessel. Pear shell (Zoöl.), any marine gastropod shell of the genus Pyrula, native of tropical seas; -- so called from the shape. -- Pear slug (Zoöl.), the larva of a sawfly which is very injurious to the foliage of the pear tree. 
See Perch. 
A fringe or border. [Obs.] -- v. t. 
A shelly concretion, usually rounded, and having a brilliant luster, with varying tints, found in the mantle, or between the mantle and shell, of certain bivalve mollusks, especially in the pearl oysters and river mussels, and sometimes in certain univalves. It is usually due to a secretion of shelly substance around some irritating foreign particle. Its substance is the same as nacre, or mother-of-pearl. Pearls which are round, or nearly round, and of fine luster, are highly esteemed as jewels, and compare in value with the precious stones. 
Of or pertaining to pearl or pearls; made of pearls, or of mother-of-pearl. 
Resembling pearl or mother-of-pearl; pearly in quality or appearance. 
The name of several kinds of apples; as, the blue pearmain, winter pearmain, and red pearmain. 
Active; lively; brisk; smart; -- often applied to convalescents; as, she is quite peart to-day. [O. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] There was a tricksy girl, I wot, albeit clad in gray, As peart as bird, as straight as bolt, as fresh as flowers in May. Warner (1592). 
Pisolite. 
A small person; a pet; -- sometimes used contemptuously. [Obs.] Shak. 
A substance of vegetable origin, consisting of roots and fibers, moss, etc., in various stages of decomposition, and found, as a kind of turf or bog, usually in low situations, where it is always more or less saturated with water. It is often dried and used for fuel. Peat bog, a bog containing peat; also, peat as it occurs in such places; peat moss. -- Peat moss. (a) The plants which, when decomposed, become peat. (b) A fen producing peat. (c) (Bot.) Moss of the genus Sphagnum, which often grows abundantly in boggy or peaty places. -- Peat reek, the reek or smoke of peat; hence, also, the peculiar flavor given to whisky by being distilled with peat as fuel. [Scot.] 
Composed of peat; abounding in peat; resembling peat. 
An armadillo (Tatusia novemcincta) which is found from Texas to Paraguay; -- called also tatouhou. 
To grain (leather) so as to produce a surface covered with small rounded prominences. 
Full of pebbles; pebbled. "A hard, pebbly bottom." Johnson. 
A species of hickory (Carya olivæformis), growing in North America, chiefly in the Mississippi valley and in Texas, where it is one of the largest of forest trees; also, its fruit, a smooth, oblong nut, an inch or an inch and a half long, with a thin shell and well- flavored meat. [Written also pacane.] 
See Peccary. 
See Pekoe. 
A quick, sharp stroke, as with the beak of a bird or a pointed instrument. 
Inclined to eat; hungry. [Colloq.] "When shall I feel peckish again" Beaconsfield. 
An extensive division of ruminants, including the antelopes, deer, and cattle. 
Any species of bivalve mollusks of the genus Pecten, and numerous allied genera (family Pectinidæ); a scallop. See Scallop. 
Of or pertaining to pectin; specifically, designating an acid obtained from ordinary vegetable jelly (pectin) as an amorphous substance, tough and horny when dry, but gelatinous when moist. 
One of a series of carbohydrates, commonly called vegetable jelly, found very widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, especially in ripe fleshy fruits, as apples, cranberries, etc. It is extracted as variously colored, translucent substances, which are soluble in hot water but become viscous on cooling. 
The breast of a bird. 
See Picul. 
A basket; a hammer; a pannier. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
A toll or tax paid by passengers, entitling them to safe- conduct and protection. [Obs.] Spelman. 
Of or pertaining to a pedal; having pedals. Pedal curve or surface (Geom.), the curve or surface which is the locus of the feet of perpendiculars let fall from a fixed point upon the straight lines tangent to a given curve, or upon the planes tangent to a given surface. -- Pedal note (Mus.), the note which is held or sustained through an organ point. See Organ point, under Organ. -- Pedal organ (Mus.), an organ which has pedals or a range of keys moved by the feet; that portion of a full organ which is played with the feet. 
A lever or key acted on by the foot, as in the pianoforte to raise the dampers, or in the organ to open and close certain pipes; a treadle, as in a lathe or a bicycle. 
Of or pertaining to a pedant; characteristic of, or resembling, a pedant; ostentatious of learning; as, a pedantic writer; a pedantic description; a pedantical affectation. "Figures pedantical." Shak. 
A sandal. [Obs.] Latimer. 
An order of holothurians, including those that have ambulacral suckers, or feet, and an internal gill. 
Palmate, with the lateral lobes cleft into two or more segments; -- said of a leaf. -- Ped"ate*ly, adv. 
To sell from place to place; to retail by carrying around from customer to customer; to hawk; hence, to retail in very small quantities; as, to peddle vegetables or tinware. 
Pertaining to the foot, or to any organ called a foot; pedal. Dana. 
The stem or stalk that supports the flower or fruit of a plant, or a cluster of flowers or fruits. 
See 1st Pea. 
Bill of an anchor. See Peak, 3 (c). 
See Piece. 
The dauw. 
To look slyly, or with the eyes half closed, or through a crevice; to peep. [Colloq.] 
A small tower, fort, or castle; a keep. [Scot.] 
A spadelike implement, variously used, as for removing loaves of bread from a baker's oven; also, a T-shaped implement used by printers and bookbinders for hanging wet sheets of paper on lines or poles to dry. Also, the blade of an oar. 
To plunder; to pillage; to rob. [Obs.] But govern ill the nations under yoke, Peeling their provinces. Milton. 
To lose the skin, bark, or rind; to come off, as the skin, bark, or rind does; -- often used with an adverb; as, the bark peels easily or readily. 
The skin or rind; as, the peel of an orange. 
A graceful and swift South African antelope (Pelea capreola). The hair is woolly, and ash-gray on the back and sides. The horns are black, long, slender, straight, nearly smooth, and very sharp. Called also rheeboc, and rehboc. 
One who peels or strips. 
A pillager. 
A nickname for a policeman; -- so called from Sir Robert Peel. [British Slang] See Bobby. 
To draw, bend, or straighten, as metal, by blows with the peen of a hammer or sledge. 
To complain. [Scot.] 
A hole, or crevice, through which one may peep without being discovered. 
To look narrowly or curiously or intently; to peep; as, the peering day. Milton. Peering in maps for ports, and piers, and roads. Shak. As if through a dungeon grate he peered. Coleridge. 
To make equal in rank. [R.] Heylin. 
To be, or to assume to be, equal. [R.] 
Same as Peart. 
To score with a peg, as points in the game; as, she pegged twelwe points. [Colloq.] 
To work diligently, as one who pegs shoes; -- usually with on, at, or away; as, to peg away at a task. 
One who fastens with pegs. 
A sort of moving machine employed in the old pageants. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
See Peen. 
A weight; a poise. [Obs.] "To weigh pence with a peise." Piers Plowman. 
To poise or weight. [Obs.] Chaucer. Lest leaden slumber peise me down. Shak. 
See Fisher, 2. 
A kind of black tea. [Written also pecco.] 
See Wax insect, under Wax. 
The covering, or coat, of a mammal, whether of wool, fur, or hair. 
Money; riches; lucre; gain; -- generally conveying the idea of something ill-gotten or worthless. It has no plural. "Mucky pelf." Spenser. "Paltry pelf." Burke. Can their pelf prosper, not got by valor or industry Fuller. 
The American coot (Fulica). 
A variety of iolite, of a smoky blue color; pelioma. 
To pelt; to knock about. [Obs.] Holland. 
A porpoise. 
To form into small balls. [Obs.] Shak. 
The under surface of the foot. 
A Basque, Spanish, and Spanish-American game played in a court, in which a ball is struck with a wickerwork racket. 
The body of any quarry killed by the hawk. Pelt rot, a disease affecting the hair or wool of a beast. 
A blow or stroke from something thrown. 
A small shield, especially one of an approximately elliptic form, or crescent-shaped. 
One who pelts. 
A pinchpenny; a mean, sordid person; a miser; a skinflint. [Obs.] "Let such pelters prate." Gascoigne. 
Pelts or skins, collectively; skins with the fur on them; furs. 
The South American hairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus). 
A crisp, hard, thin paper, sometimes used for postage stamps. 
Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pelvis; as, pelvic cellulitis. Pelvic arch, or Pelvic girdle (Anat.), the two or more bony or cartilaginous pieces of the vertebrate skeleton to which the hind limbs are articulated. When fully ossified, the arch usually consists of three principal bones on each side, the ilium, ischium, and pubis, which are often closely united in the adult, forming the innominate bone. See Innominate bone, under Innominate. 
The pelvic arch, or the pelvic arch together with the sacrum. See Pelvic arch, under Pelvic, and Sacrum. 
The internal shell of a squid. 
To write; to compose and commit to paper; to indite; to compose; as, to pen a sonnet. "A prayer elaborately penned." Milton. 
To shut up, as in a pen or cage; to confine in a small inclosure or narrow space; to coop up, or shut in; to inclose. "Away with her, and pen her up." Shak. Watching where shepherds pen their flocks at eve. Milton. 
A small inclosure; as, a pen for sheep or for pigs. My father stole two geese out of a pen. Shak. 
Of or pertaining to punishment, to penalties, or to crimes and offenses; pertaining to criminal jurisprudence: as: (a) Enacting or threatening punishment; as, a penal statue; the penal code. (b) Incurring punishment; subject to a penalty; as, a penalact of offense. (c) Inflicted as punishment; used as a means of punishment; as, a penal colony or settlement. "Adamantine chains and penal fire." Milton. Penal code (Law), a code of laws concerning crimes and offenses and their punishment. -- Penal laws, Penal statutes (Law), laws prohibited certain acts, and imposing penalties for committing them. -- Penal servitude, imprisonment with hard labor, in a prison, in lieu of transportation. [Great Brit.] -- Penal suit, Penal action (Law), a suit for penalties. 
Penal. [Obs.] Gauden. 
pl. of Penny. See Penny. 
A small, narrow flag or streamer borne at the top of a lance; - - called also pennoncel. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Chaucer. 
An aggregate or collection of rays of light, especially when diverging from, or converging to, a point. 
To write or mark with a pencil; to paint or to draw. Cowper. Where nature pencils butterflies on flowers. Harte. 
Oil cake; penock. [India] 
To pen; to confine. [R.] ended within the limits . . . of Greece. Udall. 
The male member, or organ of generation. 
A minnow. See Pink, n., 4. [Prov. Eng.] Walton. 
The use of the pen in writing; the art of writing; style or manner of writing; chirography; as, good or bad penmanship. 
A perfect, or normal, feather. 
Having the form of a feather or plume. 
A wing; a pinion. Milton. 
A pennant; a flag or streamer. Longfellow. 
Denoting pound weight for one thousand; -- used in combination, with respect to nails; as, tenpenny nails, nails of which one thousand weight ten pounds. 
See Denarius. Penny cress (Bot.), an annual herb of the Mustard family, having round, flat pods like silver pennies (Thlaspi arvense). Dr. Prior. -- Penny dog (Zoöl.), a kind of shark found on the South coast of Britain: the tope. -- Penny father, a penurious person; a niggard. [Obs.] Robinson (More's Utopia). -- Penny grass (Bot.), pennyroyal. [R.] -- Penny post, a post carrying a letter for a penny; also, a mail carrier. -- Penny wise, wise or prudent only in small matters; saving small sums while losing larger; -- used chiefly in the phrase, penny wise and pound foolish. 
Worth or costing one penny. 
See Pend. 
pl. of Penny. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A pencel. Chaucer. 
Penned or shut up; confined; -- often with up. Here in the body pent. J. Montgomery. No pent-up Utica contracts your powers. J. M. Sewall. 
Any element, atom, or radical, having a valence of five, or which can be combined with, substituted for, or compared with, five atoms of hydrogen or other monad; as, nitrogen is a pentad in the ammonium compounds. 
Having the valence of a pentad. 
The hypothetical radical, C5H11, of pentane and certain of its derivatives. Same as Amyl. 
The last syllable but one of a word; the syllable preceding the final one. 
A cloth, or other material, for wiping off or cleaning ink from a pen. 
See Poon. 
See 2d Pawn. 
A plant, and its flower, of the ranunculaceous genus Pæonia. Of the four or five species, one is a shrub; the rest are perennial herbs with showy flowers, often double in cultivation. [Written also pæony, and piony.] 
To stock with people or inhabitants; to fill as with people; to populate. "Peopled heaven with angels." Dryden. As the gay motes that people the sunbeams. Milton . 
A genus of plants including water purslane. 
 A peplos. Hence: An overskirt hanging like an ancient peplos; also, a short fitted skirt attached to a waist or coat. 
Any fleshy fruit with a firm rind, as a pumpkin, melon, or gourd. See Gourd. 
The plant which yields pepper, an East Indian woody climber (Piper nigrum), with ovate leaves and apetalous flowers in spikes opposite the leaves. The berries are red when ripe. Also, by extension, any one of the several hundred species of the genus Piper, widely dispersed throughout the tropical and subtropical regions of the earth. 
To fire numerous shots (at). 
An unorganized proteolytic ferment or enzyme contained in the secretory glands of the stomach. In the gastric juice it is united with dilute hydrochloric acid (0.2 per cent, approximately) and the two together constitute the active portion of the digestive fluid. It is the active agent in the gastric juice of all animals. 
Pertaining to pepsin; resembling pepsin in its power of digesting or dissolving albuminous matter; containing or yielding pepsin, or a body of like properties; as, the peptic glands. 
The digestive organs. Is there some magic in the place, Or do my peptics differ Tennyson. 
Through; by means of; through the agency of; by; for; for each; as, per annum; per capita, by heads, or according to individuals; per curiam, by the court; per se, by itself, of itself. Per is also sometimes used with English words. Per annum, by the year; in each successive year; annually. -- Per cent, Per centum, by the hundred; in the hundred; -- used esp. of proportions of ingredients, rate or amount of interest, and the like; commonly used in the shortened form per cent. -- Per diem, by the day. [For other phrases from the Latin, see Quotations, Phrases, etc., from Foreign Languages, in the Supplement.] 
To go through with; to perform. [Obs.] Sylvester. 
A genus of fishes, including the fresh-water perch. 
To pierce. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To alight or settle, as a bird; to sit or roost. Wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch. Shak. 
By chance; perhaps; peradventure. 
See Parde. Spenser. 
A genus of birds including the common European partridge. Formerly the word was used in a much wider sense to include many allied genera. 
Treason. 
Truly. See Parde. [Obs.] Ah, dame! perdy ye have not done me right. Spenser. 
A peer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Apparel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Perfect. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To fix surely; to appoint. [Obs.] 
An imaginary being, male or female, like an elf or fairy, represented as a descendant of fallen angels, excluded from paradise till penance is accomplished. Moore. 
Danger; risk; hazard; jeopardy; exposure of person or property to injury, loss, or destruction. In perils of waters, in perils of robbers. 2 Cor. xi. 26. Adventure hard With peril great achieved. Milton. At, or On, one's peril, with risk or danger to one; at the hazard of. "On thy soul's peril." Shak. 
To expose to danger; to hazard; to risk; as, to peril one's life. 
To be in danger. [Obs.] Milton. 
One of the great divisions of geological time; as, the Tertiary period; the Glacial period. See the Chart of Geology. 
To put an end to. [Obs.] Shak. 
To come to a period; to conclude. [Obs.] "You may period upon this, that," etc. Felthman. 
To be destroyed; to pass away; to become nothing; to be lost; to die; hence, to wither; to waste away. I perish with hunger! Luke xv. 17. Grow up and perish, as the summer fly. Milton. The thoughts of a soul that perish in thinking. Locke. 
To cause perish. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Skilled. [Obs.] 
To make trim or smart; to straighten up; to erect; to make a jaunty or saucy display of; as, to perk the ears; to perk up one's head. Cowper. Sherburne. 
To exalt one's self; to bear one's self loftily. "To perk over them." Barrow. To perk it, to carry one's self proudly or saucily. Pope. 
Smart; trim; spruce; jaunty; vain. "Perk as a peacock." Spenser. 
To peer; to look inquisitively. Dickens. 
A kind of weak perry. 
Perk; pert; jaunty; trim. There amid perky larches and pines. Tennyson. 
Any insect of the genus Perla, or family Perlidæ. See Stone fly, under Stone. 
To grant permission; to allow. 
Warrant; license; leave; permission; specifically, a written license or permission given to a person or persons having authority; as, a permit to land goods subject to duty. 
To mix; to mingle. [Obs.] 
To take profit of; to make profitable. [Obs.] Sylvester. 
The honey buzzard. 
See Pimpernel. [Obs.] 
A chilblain. 
One who receives the profits, as of an estate. 
Precious stones; jewels. [Obs.] [Written also perre, perrye, etc.] Chaucer. 
An out-of-door flight of steps, as in a garden, leading to a terrace or to an upper story; -- usually applied to mediævel or later structures of some architectural pretensions. 
A fermented liquor made from pears; pear cider. Mortimer. 
A suddent squall. See Pirry. [Obs.] 
Light blue; grayish blue; -- a term applied to different shades at different periods. -- n. 
Of or relating to Persia. -- n. 
A kind of coloring matter obtained from lichens. 
Among Trinitarians, one of the three subdivisions of the Godhead (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost); an hypostasis. "Three persons and one God." Bk. of Com. Prayer. 
To represent as a person; to personify; to impersonate. [Obs.] Milton. 
To behave with pertness. [Obs.] Gauden. 
In a pert manner. 
A wig; a periwig. 
To dress with a peruke. [R.] 
One of the scales of a leaf bud. 
Same as Perula. 
One who peruses. 
See Parvis. 
A pear tree. See Pirie. [Obs.] 
The distal segment of the hind limb of vertebrates, including the tarsus and foot. 
The motion of a horse when, raising his fore quarters, he keeps his hind feet on the ground without advancing; rearing. 
A fee, or toll, paid for the weighing of merchandise. 
See Pusane. 
A pea. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A Spanish silver coin, and money of account, equal to about nineteen cents, and divided into 100 centesimos. 
Pestering; vexatious; troublesome. Used also as an intensive. [Colloq. & Low, U.S.] Judd. 
A Spanish dollar; also, an Argentine, Chilian, Colombian, etc., coin, equal to from 75 cents to a dollar; also, a pound weight. 
Belonging to, or characteristic of, a system of elementary education which combined manual training with other instruction, advocated and practiced by Jean Henri Pestalozzi (1746-1827), a Swiss teacher. -- n. 
One who pesters or harasses. 
To pound, pulverize, bray, or mix with a pestle, or as with a pestle; to use a pestle. 
A slight fit of peevishness or fretfulness. "In a pet she started up." Tennyson. 
Petted; indulged; admired; cherished; as, a pet child; a pet lamb; a pet theory. Some young lady's pet curate. F. Harrison. Pet cock. Etym: [Perh. for petty cock.] (Mach.) A little faucet in a water pipe or pump, to let air out, or at the end of a steam cylinder, to drain it. 
To treat as a pet; to fondle; to indulge; as, she was petted and spoiled. 
To be a pet. Feltham. 
One of the leaves of the corolla, or the colored leaves of a flower. See Corolla, and Illust. of Flower. 
See Petard. [Obs.] "Hoist with his own petar." Shak. 
A case containing powder to be exploded, esp. a conical or cylindrical case of metal filled with powder and attached to a plank, to be exploded against and break down gates, barricades, drawbridges, etc. It has been superseded. 
A common baptismal name for a man. The name of one of the apostles, Peter boat, a fishing boat, sharp at both ends, originally of the Baltic Sea, but now common in certain English rivers. -- Peter Funk, the auctioneer in a mock auction. [Cant, U.S.] -- Peter pence, or Peter's pence. (a) An annual tax or tribute, formerly paid by the English people to the pope, being a penny for every house, payable on Lammas or St.Peter's day; -- called also Rome scot, and hearth money. (b) In modern times, a voluntary contribution made by Roman Catholics to the private purse of the pope. -- Peter's fish (Zoöl.), a haddock; -- so called because the black spots, one on each side, behind the gills, are traditionally said to have been caused by the fingers of St. Peter, when he caught the fish to pay the tribute. The name is applied, also, to other fishes having similar spots. 
To become exhausted; to run out; to fail; -- used generally with out; as, that mine has petered out. [Slang, U.S.] 
Small; little; insignificant; mean; -- Same as Petty. [Obs., except in legal language.] By what small, petit hints does the mind catch hold of and recover a vanishing notion. South. Petit constable, an inferior civil officer, subordinate to the high constable. -- Petit jury, a jury of twelve men, impaneled to try causes at the bar of a court; -- so called in distinction from the grand jury. -- Petit larceny, the stealing of goods of, or under, a certain specified small value; -- opposed to grand larceny. The distinction is abolished in England. -- Petit maître (. Etym: [F., lit., little master.] A fop; a coxcomb; a ladies' man. Goldsmith. -- Petit serjeanty (Eng. Law), the tenure of lands of the crown, by the service of rendering annually some implement of war, as a bow, an arrow, a sword, a flag, etc. -- Petit treason, formerly, in England, the crime of killing a person to whom the offender owed duty or subjection, as one's husband, master, mistress, etc. The crime is now not distinguished from murder. 
Small, little; of a woman or girl, of small size and trim figure. 
See Packfong. 
See Saltpeter. 
Any one of numerous species of longwinged sea birds belonging to the family Procellaridæ. The small petrels, or Mother Carey's chickens, belong to Oceanites, Oceanodroma, Procellaria, and several allied genera. Diving petrel, any bird of the genus Pelecanoides. They chiefly inhabit the southern hemisphere. -- Fulmar petrel, Giant petrel. See Fulmar. -- Pintado petrel, the Cape pigeon. See under Cape. -- Pintado petrel, any one of several small petrels, especially Procellaria pelagica, or Mother Carey's chicken, common on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Petroleum. [R.] 
The breast. In petto, in the breast; hence, in secrecy; in reserve. 
Little; trifling; inconsiderable; also, inferior; subordinate; as, a petty fault; a petty prince. Denham. Like a petty god I walked about, admired of all. Milton. Petty averages. See under Average. -- Petty cash, money expended or received in small items or amounts. -- Petty officer, a subofficer in the navy, as a gunner, etc., corresponding to a noncommissionned officer in the army. 
To spray (tobacco) with a liquid intended to produce flavor or aroma. 
A liquid resembling camphene, obtained by treating turpentine hydrochloride with lime. [Written also peucyl.] 
To furnish with pews. [R.] Ash. 
A common American tyrant flycatcher (Sayornis phoebe, or S. fuscus). Called also pewit, and phoebe. 
Same as Pewit. 
One whose occupation is to make utensils of pewter; a pewtersmith. Shak. 
Nap of cloth. [Obs.] 
A genus of fungi embracing a great number of species, some of which are remarkable for their regular cuplike form and deep colors. 
A quarter of Constantinople which, after the Turkish conquest of the city, became the chief Greek quarter; hence, the Greek officials of Turkey, or phanariots, as a class. 
See Fane. [Obs.] Joye. 
Following the practice of Pharisees; Pharisaic. [Obs.] "Pharisean disciples." Milton. 
The art or science which treats of lighthouses and signal lights. 
A lighthouse or beacon for the guidance of seamen. He . . . built a pharos, or lighthouse. Arbuthnot. 
A particular appearance or state in a regularly recurring cycle of changes with respect to quantity of illumination or form of enlightened disk; as, the phases of the moon or planets. See Illust. under Moon. 
The French bean, or kidney bean. 
See Phase. Creech. 
See Phoebe. 
See 1st Fere. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To comb; also, to beat; to worry. [Obs. or Local] See Feaze, v. 
Fretful excitement. [Obs. or Local] See Feaze, n. 
Benzene. [Obs.] 
Of, pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, phenyl or phenol. Phenic acid (Chem.), a phenol. [Obsoles.] 
A bird fabled to exist single, to be consumed by fire by its own act, and to rise again from its ashes. Hence, an emblem of immortality. 
A compound of phenol analogous to a salt. 
A hydrocarbon radical (C6H5) regarded as the essential residue of benzene, and the basis of an immense number of aromatic derivatives. Phenyl hydrate (Chem.), phenol or carbolic acid. -- Phenyl hydrazine (Chem.), a nitrogenous base (C6H5.N2H3) produced artificially as a colorless oil which unites with acids, ketones, etc., to form well-crystallized compounds. 
A bearing representing the head of a dart or javelin, with long barbs which are engrailed on the inner edge. 
A glass vessel or bottle, especially a small bottle for medicines; a vial. 
To put or keep in, or as in, a phial. Its phial'd wrath may fate exhaust. Shenstone. 
Of or pertaining to Philippi, a city of ancient Macedonia. -- n. 
The face or visage. [Colloq.] Cowper. 
Viscid mucus secreted in abnormal quantity in the respiratory and digestive passages. 
See Fleam. 
A genus of grasses, including the timothy (Phleum pratense), which is highly valued for hay; cat's-tail grass. Gray. 
That portion of fibrovascular bundles which corresponds to the inner bark; the liber tissue; -- distinguished from xylem. 
A genus of American herbs, having showy red, white, or purple flowers. Phlox worm (Zoöl.), the larva of an American moth (Heliothis phloxiphaga). It is destructive to phloxes. -- Phlox subulata, the moss pink. See under Moss. 
A genus of seals. It includes the common harbor seal and allied species. See Seal. 
Pertaining to seals. 
The pewee, or pewit. 
Any species of Pholas. 
Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pholas, or family Pholadidæ. They bore holes for themselves in clay, peat, and soft rocks. 
Of or relating to the voice; as, phonal structure. Max Müller. 
Colloq. for Telephone. 
Of or pertaining to sound; of the nature of sound; acoustic. Tyndall. 
A South American butterfly (Ithonia phono) having nearly transparent wings. 
Relating to the production of light by the lower animals. 
A contraction of Photograph. [Colloq.] 
A short clause or portion of a period. 
To express in words, or in peculiar words; to call; to style. "These suns -- for so they phrase 'em." Shak. 
To group notes into phrases; as, he phrases well. See Phrase, n., 4. 
Fluorine. [Written also phthor.] 
A local division of the people in ancient Athens; a clan; a tribe. 
A tribe. 
One of the larger divisions of the animal kingdom; a branch; a grand division. 
A tubercle on any external part of the body. 
A genus of fresh-water Pulmonifera, having reversed spiral shells. See Pond snail, under Pond. 
In a physical manner; according to the laws of nature or physics; by physical force; not morally. I am not now treating physically of light or colors. Locke. 
One of the parts which by their repetition make up a flowering plant, each being a single joint of a stem with its leaf or leaves; a phytomer. 
See Phiz. 
A heinous offense which requires expiation. [R.] Howell. 
Pertaining to the pia mater. 
The yaws. See Yaws. 
A small piano; a pianino. 
Soft; -- a direction to the performer to execute a certain passage softly, and with diminished volume of tone. (Abbrev. p.) 
A West African pie (Ptilostomus Senegalensis). 
Cymbals. [Written also pyatti.] 
An open square in a European town, especially an Italian town; hence (Arch.), an arcaded and roofed gallery; a portico. In the United States the word is popularly applied to a veranda. We walk by the obelisk, and meditate in piazzas. Jer. Taylor. 
A Turkish cloth measure, varying from 18 to 28 inches. 
The genus that includes the magpies. 
One of a sect of Adamites in the fifteenth century; -- so called from one Picard of Flanders. See Adamite. 
A small copper coin of the East Indies, worth less than a cent. Malcom. 
A genus of coniferous trees of the northen hemisphere, including the Norway spruce and the American black and white spruces. These trees have pendent cones, which do not readily fall to pieces, in this and other respects differing from the firs. 
A hydrocarbon (C 
A Brazilian armadillo (Dasypus minutus); the little armadillo. [Written also pichiy.] 
A division of birds including the woodpeckers and wrynecks. 
Of or pertaining to the woodpeckers (Pici), or to the Piciformes. 
A heavy iron tool, curved and sometimes pointed at both ends, wielded by means of a wooden handle inserted in the middle, -- used by quarrymen, roadmakers, etc.; also, a pointed hammer used for dressing millstones. 
Having a pike or spine on the back; -- said of certain fishes. 
A machine for picking fibrous materials to pieces so as to loosen and separate the fiber. 
A detached body of troops serving to guard an army from surprise, and to oppose reconnoitering parties of the enemy; -- called also outlying picket. 
See Picotee. 
See Picle. 
A bath of dilute sulphuric or nitric acid, etc., to remove burnt sand, scale rust, etc., from the surface of castings, or other articles of metal, or to brighten them or improve their color. 
Preserved in a pickle. 
See Pixy. 
Formerly, an entertainment at which each person contributed some dish to a common table; now, an excursion or pleasure party in which the members partake of a collation or repast (usually in the open air, and from food carried by themselves). 
To go on a picnic, or pleasure excursion; to eat in public fashion. 
Like or pertaining to the Pici. 
One of many small loops, as of thread, forming an ornamental border, as on a ribbon. 
The powder of aloes with canella, formerly officinal, employed as a cathartic. 
Pertaining to, or designating, a strong organic acid (called picric acid), intensely bitter. 
The hypothetical radical of picric acid, analogous to phenyl. 
A race of people of uncertain origin, who inhabited Scotland in early times. 
A commercial weight varying in different countries and for different commodities. In Borneo it is 135tan. [Written also pecul, and pecal.] 
A genus of woodpeckers, including some of the common American and European species. 
One who piddles. 
The service book. 
See Pi. 
One of the superior men, distinguished from a pawn. 
To unite by a coalescence of parts; to fit together; to join. "It pieced better." Bacon. 
Work done by the piece or job; work paid for at a rate based on the amount of work done, rather than on the time employed. The reaping was piecework, at so much per acre. R. Jefferies. 
imp. & p. p. of Pi, or Pie, v. 
Variegated with spots of different colors; party-colored; spotted; piebald. "Pied coats." Burton. "Meadows trim with daisies pied." Milton. Pied antelope (Zoöl.), the bontebok. -- Pied-billed grebe (Zoöl.), the dabchick. -- Pied blackbird (Zoöl.), any Asiatic thrush of the genus Turdulus. -- Pied finch (Zoöl.) (a) The chaffinch. (b) The snow bunting. [Prov. Eng.] -- Pied flycatcher (Zoöl.), a common European flycatcher (Ficedula atricapilla). The male is black and white. 
A man who makes or sells pies. 
See Peen. 
Full; having all the instruments. 
Same as Wharfage. Smart. 
To enter; to penetrate; to make a way into or through something, as a pointed instrument does; -- used literally and figuratively. And pierced to the skin, but bit no more. Spenser. She would not pierce further into his meaning. Sir P. Sidney. 
Any butterfly of the genus Pieris and related genera. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage. 
A representation of the dead Christ, attended by the Virgin Mary or by holy women and angels. Mollett. 
The lapwing, or pewit. [Prov. Eng.] 
To be sequeamish or delicate; hence, to act or talk triflingly or ineffectively; to twaddle; piddle. [Dial. or Slang] 
Act of piffling; trifling talk or action; piddling; twaddle. [Dial. or Slang] "Futile piffle." Kipling. 
A piggin. [Written also pigg.] 
Any wild species of the genus Sus and related genera. 
Any bird of the order Columbæ, of which numerous species occur in nearly all parts of the world. 
To pluck; to fleece; to swindle by tricks in gambling. [Slang] Smart. He's pigeoned and undone. Observer. 
A piggin. See 1st Pig. Sir W. Scott. 
A small wooden pail or tub with an upright stave for a handle, -- often used as a dipper. 
Pitched; fixed; determined. [Obs.] [His horse] pight him on the pommel of his head. Chaucer. I found him pight to do it. Shak. 
See Pygmy. Pigmy falcon. (Zoöl.) Same as Falconet, 2 (a). 
A pledge or pawn. 
A pen, or sty, for pigs. 
A pigpen. 
Any one of several species of rodents of the genus Lagomys, resembling small tailless rabbits. They inhabit the high mountains of Asia and America. Called also calling hare, and crying hare. See Chief hare. 
A foot soldier's weapon, consisting of a long wooden shaft or staff, with a pointed steel head. It is now superseded by the bayonet. 
Furnished with a pike; ending in a point; peaked; pointed. "With their piked targets bearing them down." Milton. 
See Pelage. 
See Pillau. 
A gown or case of skin, or one trimmed or lined with fur. [Obs.] 
A covering of hair or fur. 
The head of an arrow or spear. [Obs.] Chapman. 
One of the ordinaries or subordinaries having the form of a wedge, usually placed palewise, with the broadest end uppermost. Pile bridge, a bridge of which the roadway is supported on piles. -- Pile cap, a beam resting upon and connecting the heads of piles. -- Pile driver, or Pile engine, an apparatus for driving down piles, consisting usually of a high frame, with suitable appliances for raising to a height (by animal or steam power, the explosion of gunpowder, etc.) a heavy mass of iron, which falls upon the pile. -- Pile dwelling. See Lake dwelling, under Lake. -- Pile plank (Hydraul. Eng.), a thick plank used as a pile in sheet piling. See Sheet piling, under Piling. -- Pneumatic pile. See under Pneumatic. -- Screw pile, one with a screw at the lower end, and sunk by rotation aided by pressure. 
To drive piles into; to fill with piles; to strengthen with piles. To sheet-pile, to make sheet piling in or around. See Sheet piling, under 2nd Piling. 
Same as Fagot, n., 2. 
Having a crest covering the pileus, or whole top of the head. Pileated woodpecker (Zoöl.), a large American woodpecker (Ceophloeus pileatus). It is black, with a bright red pointed crest. Called also logcock, and woodcock. 
Having a pile or point; pointed. [Obs.] "Magus threw a spear well piled." Chapman. 
Having a pile or nap. "Three-piled velvet." L. Barry (1611). 
Formed from a pile or fagot; as, piled iron. 
One who places things in a pile. 
The small, troublesome tumors or swellings about the anus and lower part of the rectum which are technically called hemorrhoids. See Hemorrhoids. 
A kind of skull cap of felt. 
To steal in small quantities, or articles of small value; to practice petty theft. 
To take by petty theft; to filch; to steal little by little. And not a year but pilfers as he goes Some youthful grace that age would gladly keep. Cowper. 
The process of building up, heating, and working, fagots, or piles, to form bars, etc. 
A series of piles; piles considered collectively; as, the piling of a bridge. Pug piling, sheet piles connected together at the edges by dovetailed tongues and grooves. -- Sheet piling, a series of piles made of planks or half logs driven edge to edge, -- used to form the walls of cofferdams, etc. 
The peel or skin. [Obs.] "Some be covered over with crusts, or hard pills, as the locusts." Holland. 
To be peeled; to peel off in flakes. 
To rob; to plunder; to pillage; to peel. See Peel, to plunder. [Obs.] Spenser. Pillers and robbers were come in to the field to pill and to rob. Sir T. Malroy. 
To strip of money or goods by open violence; to plunder; to spoil; to lay waste; as, to pillage the camp of an enemy. Mummius . . . took, pillaged, and burnt their city. Arbuthnot. 
A portable ornamental column, formerly carried before a cardinal, as emblematic of his support to the church. [Obs.] Skelton. 
Having a support in the form of a pillar, instead of legs; as, a pillar drill. 
An Oriental dish consisting of rice boiled with mutton, fat, or butter. [Written also pilau.] 
Stripped of hair; scant of hair; bald. [Obs.] "Pilled beard." Chaucer. 
One who pills or plunders. [Obs.] 
A piece of metal or wood, forming a support to equalize pressure; a brass; a pillow block. [R.] 
To rest or lay upon, or as upon, a pillow; to support; as, to pillow the head. Pillows his chin upon an orient wave. Milton. 
Same as Pilon. [Texas] 
Clothed thickly with pile or soft down. 
One employed to steer a vessel; a helmsman; a steersman. Dryden. 
A small, unmanned balloon sent up to indicate the direction of air currents. 
A piller; a plunderer. [Obs.] 
See Pilose. 
Among the Jews, penetrating investigation, disputation, and drawing of conclusions, esp. in Talmudic study. -- Pil"pul*ist (#), n. --Pil`pul*is"tic (#), a. 
An insect that flies into a flame. 
A pillow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Like pile or wool. 
Wine flavored with spice or honey. See Pigment, 3. [Obs.] 
An olive stuffed with a kind of sweet red pepper, or pimiento. 
One who provides gratification for the lust of others; a procurer; a pander. Swift. 
To procure women for the gratification of others' lusts; to pander. Dryden. 
Any small acuminated elevation of the cuticle, whether going on to suppuration or not. "All eyes can see a pimple on her nose." Pope. 
Pimpled. 
To peen. 
To inclose; to confine; to pen; to pound. 
Caligo. See Caligo. Shak. 
To fasten with, or as with, a pin; to join; as, to pin a garment; to pin boards together. "Aa if she would pin her to her heart." Shak. To pin one's faith upon, to depend upon; to trust to. 
A tablet; a register; hence, a list or scheme inscribed on a tablet. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 
To take hold; to grip, as a dog does. [Obs.] 
An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling gold; a yellow metal, composed of about three ounces of zinc to a pound of copper. It is much used as an imitation of gold in the manufacture of cheap jewelry. 
One who impounds; a poundkeeper. [Obs.] 
Woe; torment; pain. [Obs.] "Pyne of hell." Chaucer. 
Any tree of the coniferous genus Pinus. See Pinus. 
Of or pertaining to a pine cone; resembling a pine cone. Pineal gland (Anat.), a glandlike body in the roof of the third ventricle of the vertebrate brain; -- called also pineal body, epiphysis, conarium. In some animals it is connected with a rudimentary eye, the so-called pineal eye, and in other animals it is supposed to be the remnant of a dorsal median eye. 
A reddish fleshy herb of the genus Monotropa (M. hypopitys), formerly thought to be parasitic on the roots of pine trees, but more probably saprophytic. 
See Piny. 
A term used in designating an East Indian tree (the Vateria Indica or piney tree, of the order Dipterocarpeæ, which grows in Malabar, etc.) or its products. Piney dammar, Piney resin, Piney varnish, a pellucid, fragrant, acrid, bitter resin, which exudes from the piney tree (Vateria Indica) when wounded. It is used as a varnish, in making candles, and as a substitute for incense and for amber. Called also liquid copal, and white dammar. -- Piney tallow, a solid fatty substance, resembling tallow, obtained from the roasted seeds of the Vateria Indica; called also dupada oil. -- Piney thistle (Bot.), a plant (Atractylis gummifera), from the bark of which, when wounded, a gummy substance exudes. 
The sound made by a bullet in striking a solid object or in passing through the air. 
To make the sound called ping. 
A small piece of inclosed ground. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Of or pertaining to the pine; obtained from the pine; formerly, designating an acid which is the chief constituent of common resin, - - now called abietic, or sylvic, acid. 
In a pining manner; droopingly. Poe. 
A moth of the genus Lithophane, as L. antennata, whose larva bores large holes in young peaches and apples. 
A cogwheel with a small number of teeth, or leaves, adapted to engage with a larger wheel, or rack (see Rack); esp., such a wheel having its leaves formed of the substance of the arbor or spindle which is its axis. Lantern pinion. See under Lantern. -- Pinion wire, wire fluted longitudinally, for making the pinions of clocks and watches. It is formed by being drawn through holes of the shape required for the leaves or teeth of the pinions. 
Having wings or pinions. 
A compact granular cryptocrystalline mineral of a dull grayish or greenish white color. It is a hydrous alkaline silicate, and is derived from the alteration of other minerals, as iolite. 
A sweet white crystalline substance extracted from the gum of a species of pine (Pinus Lambertina). It is isomeric with, and resembles, quercite. 
A vessel with a very narrow stern; -- called also pinky. Sir W. Scott. Pink stern (Naut.), a narrow stern. 
To wink; to blink. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 
Half-shut; winking. [Obs.] Shak. 
A stab. Grose. 
A name given to several plants of the caryophyllaceous genus Dianthus, and to their flowers, which are sometimes very fragrant and often double in cultivated varieties. The species are mostly perennial herbs, with opposite linear leaves, and handsome five- petaled flowers with a tubular calyx. 
Resembling the garden pink in color; of the color called pink (see 6th Pink, 2); as, a pink dress; pink ribbons. Pink eye (Med.), a popular name for an epidemic variety of ophthalmia, associated with early and marked redness of the eyeball. -- Pink salt (Chem. & Dyeing), the double chlorides of (stannic) tin and ammonium, formerly much used as a mordant for madder and cochineal. -- Pink saucer, a small saucer, the inner surface of which is covered with a pink pigment. 
Pierced with small holes; worked in eyelets; scalloped on the edge. Shak. 
See 1st Pink. 
One of the divisions of a pinnate part or organ. 
One who pins or impounds cattle. See Pin, v. t. [Obs.] 
A pinnacle. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 
The common English periwinkle. [Prov. Eng.] 
A measure of capacity, equal to half a quart, or four gills, -- used in liquid and dry measures. See Quart. 
The laughing gull. [Prov. Eng.] 
An upright pivot pin; as: (a) The pivot pin of a hinge. (b) A hook or pin on which a rudder hangs and turns. (c) A pivot about which the chassis swings, in some kinds of gun carriages. (d) A kingbolt of a wagon. 
Lit., painted; hence, piebald; mottled; pied. 
Any pied animal; esp., a pied or "painted" horse. 
A mountain tribe of Mexican Indians living near Acapulco. They are remarkable for having the dark skin of the face irregularly spotted with white. Called also speckled Indians. 
One of the sights of an astrolabe. [Obs.] 
A large genus of evergreen coniferous trees, mostly found in the northern hemisphere. The genus formerly included the firs, spruces, larches, and hemlocks, but is now limited to those trees which have the primary leaves of the branchlets reduced to mere scales, and the secondary ones (pine needles) acicular, and usually in fascicles of two to seven. See Pine. 
A word appended to the artist's name or initials on a painting, or engraved copy of a painting; as, Rubens pinxit, Rubens painted (this). 
Abounding with pines. [Written also piney.] "The piny wood." Longfellow. 
A Shakespearean word of disputed meaning; perh., "abounding in marsh marigolds." Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims. Shak. 
A pioneer. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Peony. 
The magpie. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Holland. 
In a pious manner. 
A contagious disease of fowls, characterized by hoarseness, discharge from the nostrils and eyes, and an accumulation of mucus in the mouth, forming a "scale" on the tongue. By some the term pip is restricted to this last symptom, the disease being called roup by them. 
A seed, as of an apple or orange. 
One of the conventional figures or "spots" on playing cards, dominoes, etc. Addison. 
To cry or chirp, as a chicken; to peep. To hear the chick pip and cry in the egg. Boyle. 
The Surinam toad (Pipa Americana), noted for its peculiar breeding habits. 
Transportation, as of petroleum oil, by means of a pipe conduit; also, the charge for such transportation. 
The bagpipe; as, the pipes of Lucknow. 
To call, convey orders, etc., by means of signals on a pipe or whistle carried by a boatswain. 
To call or direct, as a crew, by the boatswain's whistle. As fine a ship's company as was ever piped aloft. Marryat. 
Formed with a pipe; having pipe or pipes; tubular. 
See Pepper. 
One who plays on a pipe, or the like, esp. on a bagpipe. "The hereditary piper and his sons." Macaulay. 
A small European bat (Vesperugo pipistrellus); -- called also flittermouse. 
Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Anthus and allied genera, of the family Motacillidæ. They strongly resemble the true larks in habits, colors, and the great length of the hind claw. They are, therefore, often called titlarks, and pipit larks. 
A small earthen boiler. 
Same as Peepul tree. 
Any one of numerous species of small clamatorial birds belonging to Pipra and allied genera, of the family Pipridæ. The male is usually glossy black, varied with scarlet, yellow, or sky blue. They chiefly inhabit South America. 
Like a pipe; hollow-stemmed. Keats. 
A cotton fabric, figured in the loom, -- used as a dress goods for women and children, and for vestings, etc. 
The jigger. See Jigger. 
In piquet, the right of the elder hand to count thirty in hand, or to play before the adversary counts one. 
To cause annoyance or irritation. "Every piques." Tatler. 
See Picket. [R.] 
A game at cards played between two persons, with thirty-two cards, all the deuces, threes, fours, fives, and sixes, being set aside. [Written also picket and picquet.] 
Robbery on the high seas; the taking of property from others on the open sea by open violence; without lawful authority, and with intent to steal; -- a crime answering to robbery on land. 
Same as Piraya. 
To play the pirate; to practice robbery on the high seas. 
To publish, as books or writings, without the permission of the author. They advertised they would pirate his edition. Pope. 
A large voracious fresh-water fish (Serrasalmo piraya) of South America, having lancet-shaped teeth. 
See Pirry. 
A pear tree. [Written also pery, pyrie.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A quill or reed on which thread or yarn is wound; a bobbin; also, the wound yarn on a weaver's shuttle; also, the reel of a fishing rod. [Scot.] 
See Pisé. 
The class of Vertebrata that includes the fishes. The principal divisions are Elasmobranchii, Ganoidei, and Teleostei. 
A species of wall made of stiff earth or clay rammed in between molds which are carried up as the wall rises; -- called also pisé work. Gwilt. 
An exclamation of contempt. 
To express contempt. Pope. 
The Canada lynx. [Written also peeshoo.] 
To discharge urine, to urinate. Shak. 
Urine. 
(man.) See Piste. 
The track or tread a horseman makes upon the ground he goes over. Johnson. 
Pure; genuine. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 
The seed-bearing organ of a flower. It consists of an ovary, containing the ovules or rudimentary seeds, and a stigma, which is commonly raised on an elongated portion called a style. When composed of one carpel a pistil is simple; when composed of several, it is compound. See Illust. of Flower, and Ovary. 
The smallest firearm used, intended to be fired from one hand, -- now of many patterns, and bearing a great variety of names. See Illust. of Revolver. Pistol carbine, a firearm with a removable but- piece, and thus capable of being used either as a pistol or a carbine. -- Pistol pipe (Metal.), a pipe in which the blast for a furnace is heated, resembling a pistol in form. -- Pistol shot. (a) The discharge of a pistol. (b) The distance to which a pistol can propel a ball. 
To shoot with a pistol. "To pistol a poacher." Sydney Smith. 
A sliding piece which either is moved by, or moves against, fluid pressure. It usually consists of a short cylinder fitting within a cylindrical vessel along which it moves, back and forth. It is used in steam engines to receive motion from the steam, and in pumps to transmit motion to a fluid; also for other purposes. Piston head (Steam Eng.), that part of a piston which is made fast to the piston rod. -- Piston rod, a rod by which a piston is moved, or by which it communicates motion. -- Piston valve (Steam Eng.), a slide valve, consisting of a piston, or connected pistons, working in a cylindrical case which is provided with ports that are traversed by the valve. 
A cactaceous shrub (Cereus Pitajaya) of tropical America, which yields a delicious fruit. 
See Pitchstone. Amboyna pitch, the resin of Dammara australis. See Kauri. -- Burgundy pitch. See under Burgundy. -- Canada pitch, the resinous exudation of the hemlock tree (Abies Canadensis); hemlock gum. -- Jew's pitch, bitumen. -- Mineral pitch. See Bitumen and Asphalt. -- Pitch coal (Min.), bituminous coal. -- Pitch peat (Min.), a black homogeneous peat, with a waxy luster. -- Pitch pine (Bot.), any one of several species of pine, yielding pitch, esp. the Pinus rigida of North America. 
That point of the ground on which the ball pitches or lights when bowled. 
A pit deceitfully covered to entrap wild beasts or men; a trap of any kind. Sir T. North. 
The soft spongy substance in the center of the stems of many plants and trees, especially those of the dicotyledonous or exogenous classes. It consists of cellular tissue. 
To destroy the central nervous system of (an animal, as a frog), as by passing a stout wire or needle up and down the vertebral canal. 
Deserving pity; wworthy of, or exciting, compassion; miserable; lamentable; piteous; as, pitiable persons; a pitiable condition; pitiable wretchedness. 
One who pities. Gauden. 
The connecting rod in a sawmill; also, sometimes, a connecting rod in other machinery. 
A long, flat-bottomed canoe, used for the navigation of rivers and lagoons in Central America. Squier. 
See Pitapat. 
Any one of a large group of bright-colored clamatorial birds belonging to Pitta, and allied genera of the family Pittidæ. Most of the species are varied with three or more colors, such as blue, green, crimson, yellow, purple, and black. They are called also ground thrushes, and Old World ant thrushes; but they are not related to the true thrushes. 
Having minute thin spots; as, pitted ducts in the vascular parts of vegetable tissue. 
A contrivance for removing the pits from peaches, plums, and other stone fruit. 
To make a pattering sound; to murmur; as, pittering streams. [Obs.] R. Greene. 
To be compassionate; to show pity. I will not pity, nor spare, nor have mercy. Jer. xiii. 14. 
A little more; as, più allegro, a little more briskly. 
The officer or soldier who simply turns in his place whike the company or line moves around him in wheeling; -- called also pivot man. Pivot bridge, a form of drawbridge in which one span, called the pivot span, turns about a central vertical axis. -- Pivot gun, a gun mounted on a pivot or revolving carriage, so as to turn in any direction. -- Pivot tooth (Dentistry), an artificial crown attached to the root of a natural tooth by a pin or peg. 
To place on a pivot. Clarke. 
See Pyx. 
The penis; -- so called in some animals, as the bull. Shak. 
Position in the heavens, as of a heavenly body; -- usually defined by its right ascension and declination, or by its latitude and longitude. Place of arms (Mil.), a place calculated for the rendezvous of men in arms, etc., as a fort which affords a safe retreat for hospitals, magazines, etc. Wilhelm. -- High place (Script.), a mount on which sacrifices were offered. "Him that offereth in the high place." Jer. xlviii. 35. -- In place, in proper position; timely. -- Out of place, inappropriate; ill-timed; as, his remarks were out of place. -- Place kick (Football), the act of kicking the ball after it has been placed on the ground. -- Place name, the name of a place or locality. London Academy. -- To give place, to make room; to yield; to give way; to give advantage. "Neither give place to the devil." Eph. iv. 27. "Let all the rest give place." Shak. -- To have place, to have a station, room, or seat; as, such desires can have no place in a good heart. -- To take place. (a) To come to pass; to occur; as, the ceremony will not take place. (b) To take precedence or priority. Addison. (c) To take effect; to prevail. "If your doctrine takes place." Berkeley. "But none of these excuses would take place." Spenser. -- To take the place of, to be substituted for. 
The first antiphon of the vespers for the dead. 
One who places or sets. Spenser. 
A deposit of earth, sand, or gravel, containing valuable mineral in particles, especially by the side of a river, or in the bed of a mountain torrent. [U.S.] 
Pleased; contented; unruffied; undisturbed; serene; peaceful; tranquil; quiet; gentle. "That placid aspect and meek regard." Milton. "Sleeping . . . the placid sleep of infancy." Macaulay. 
A decree or determination; a dictum. [Obs.] "The placits and opinions of other philosophers." Evelyn. 
A small copper coin formerly current in Scotland, worth less than a cent. With not a plack in the pocket of the poet. Prof. Wilson. 
A stripe of color. 
Having a scale running from the dominant to its octave; -- said of certain old church modes or tunes, as opposed to those called authentic, which ran from the tonic to its octave. Plagal cadence, a cadence in which the final chord on the tonic is preceded by the chord on the subdominant. 
A region; country. [Obs.] "The plages of the north." Chaucer. 
An acute malignant contagious fever, that often prevails in Egypt, Syria, and Turkey, and has at times visited the large cities of Europe with frightful mortality; hence, any pestilence; as, the great London plague. "A plague upon the people fell." Tennyson. Cattle plague. See Rinderpest. -- Plague mark, Plague spot, a spot or mark of the plague; hence, a token of something incurable. 
Abounding, or infecting, with plagues; pestilential; as, plagueful exhalations. 
Vexatious; troublesome; tormenting; as, a plaguy horse. [Colloq.] Also used adverbially; as, "He is so plaguy proud." Shak. 
Having a pattern or colors which resemble a Scotch plaid; checkered or marked with bars or stripes at right angles to one another; as, plaid muslin. 
To lament; to bewail; to complain. [Archaic & Poetic] Milton. We with piteous heart unto you pleyne. Chaucer. 
To lament; to mourn over; as, to plain a loss. [Archaic & Poetic] Sir J. Harrington. 
In a plain manner; plainly. "To speak short and pleyn." Chaucer. "To tell you plain." Shak. 
One who makes complaint; the plaintiff. [Obs.] 
A private memorial tendered to a court, in which a person sets forth his cause of action; the exhibiting of an action in writing. Blackstone. 
See Plaice. [Obs.] 
Folded; doubled over; braided; figuratively, involved; intricate; artful. Time shall unfold what plaited cunning hides. Shak. 
Any species of turbellarian worms belonging to Planaria, and many allied genera. The body is usually flat, thin, and smooth. Some species, in warm countries, are terrestrial. 
A plank. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. 
To make or cover with planks or boards; to plank. [Obs.] "To that vineyard is a planched gate." Shak. 
Any tree of the genus Platanus. 
Without elevations or depressions; even; level; flat; lying in, or constituting, a plane; as, a plane surface. 
A surface, real or imaginary, in which, if any two points are taken, the straight line which joins them lies wholly in that surface; or a surface, any section of which by a like surface is a straight line; a surface without curvature. 
Having opposite surfaces exactly plane and parallel, as a piece of glass. 
A wooden block used for forcing down the type in a form, and making the surface even. Hansard. Planer centers. See under Center. 
A celestial body which revolves about the sun in an orbit of a moderate degree of eccentricity. It is distinguished from a comet by the absence of a coma, and by having a less eccentric orbit. See Solar system. 
To splice together the ends of slivers of wool, for subsequent drawing. Planked shad, shad split open, fastened to a plank, and roasted before a wood fire. 
The whole machinery and apparatus employed in carrying on a trade or mechanical business; also, sometimes including real estate, and whatever represents investment of capital in the means of carrying on a business, but not including material worked upon or finished products; as, the plant of a foundry, a mill, or a railroad. 
To perform the act of planting. I have planted; Apollos watered. 1 Cor. iii. 6. 
Any flat, thin piece of metal, clay, ivory, or the like, used for ornament, or for painting pictures upon, as a slab, plate, dish, or the like, hung upon a wall; also, a smaller decoration worn on the person, as a brooch. 
To dabble in water; to splash. "Plashing among bedded pebbles." Keats. Far below him plashed the waters. Longfellow. 
To cut partly, or to bend and intertwine the branches of; as, to plash a hedge. Evelyn. 
The branch of a tree partly cut or bent, and bound to, or intertwined with, other branches. 
Same as Plasma. 
A variety of quartz, of a color between grass green and leek green, which is found associated with common chalcedony. It was much esteemed by the ancients for making engraved ornaments. 
To form by interlaying interweaving; to braid; to plait. "They had platted a crown of thorns." Matt. xxvii. 29. 
Work done by platting or braiding; a plait. Her hair, nor loose, nor tied in formal plat. Shak. 
A small piece or plot of ground laid out with some design, or for a special use; usually, a portion of flat, even ground. This flowery plat, the sweet recess of Eve. Milton. I keep smooth plat of fruitful ground. Tennyson. 
To lay out in plats or plots, as ground. 
Plain; flat; level. [Obs.] Gower. 
The plane tree. Tennyson. 
A piece of money, usually silver money. [Obs.] "Realms and islands were as plates dropp'd from his pocket." Shak. 
Enough to fill a plate; as much as a plate will hold. 
A small dish. 
One who plates or coats articles with gold or silver; as, a silver plater. 
See Platen. 
Flatly. See Plat, a. [Obs.] 
See Lodge, n. Raymond. 
Like a plate; consisting of plates. 
To applaud. [Obs.] Chapman. 
A beach; a strand; in the plains and deserts of Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona, a broad, level spot, on which subsequently becomes dry by evaporation. Bartlett. 
A companion in amusements or sports; a playmate. Shak. 
See Pleyt. 
A public square in a city or town. 
That which is alleged by a party in support of his cause; in a stricter sense, an allegation of fact in a cause, as distinguished from a demurrer; in a still more limited sense, and in modern practice, the defendant's answer to the plaintiff's declaration and demand. That which the plaintiff alleges in his declaration is answered and repelled or justified by the defendant's plea. In chancery practice, a plea is a special answer showing or relying upon one or more things as a cause why the suit should be either dismissed, delayed, or barred. In criminal practice, the plea is the defendant's formal answer to the indictment or information presented against him. 
To unite by interweaving, as branches of trees; to plash; to interlock. "The pleached bower." Shak. 
To present an answer, by allegation of fact, to the declaration of a plaintiff; to deny the plaintiff's declaration and demand, or to allege facts which show that ought not to recover in the suit; in a less strict sense, to make an allegation of fact in a cause; to carry on the allegations of the respective parties in a cause; to carry on a suit or plea. Blackstone. Burrill. Stephen. 
Capable of being pleaded; capable of being alleged in proof, defense, or vindication; as, a right or privilege pleadable at law. Dryden. 
Experiencing pleasure. -- Pleas"ed*ly, adv. -- Pleas"ed*ness, n. 
See Plait. 
A member of the lowest class in the military academy at West Point. [Cant, U.S.] 
Woven; plaited. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
imp. & p. p. of Plead [Colloq.] Spenser. 
The transfer of possession of personal property from a debtor to a creditor as security for a debt or engagement; also, the contract created between the debtor and creditor by a thing being so delivered or deposited, forming a species of bailment; also, that which is so delivered or deposited; something put in pawn. 
The one to whom a pledge is given, or to whom property pledged is delivered. 
One of the Pleiades. 
Plan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To complain. See Plain. [Obs.] 
Full; complete. [Obs.] "Plein remission." Chaucer. -- Plein"ly, adv. 
Full; complete; as, a plenal view or act. [Obs.] 
Full; complete; plenary. [Obs.] 
Full or adequate supply; enough and to spare; sufficiency; specifically, abundant productiveness of the earth; ample supply for human wants; abundance; copiousness. "Plenty of corn and wine." Gen. xxvii. 28. "Promises Britain peace and plenty." Shak. Houses of office stuffed with plentee. Chaucer. The teeming clouds Descend in gladsome plenty o'er the world. Thomson. 
Plentiful; abundant. [Obs. or Colloq.] If reasons were as plenty as blackberries. Shak. (Folio ed.) Those countries where shrubs are plenty. Goldsmith. 
That state in which every part of space is supposed to be full of matter; -- opposed to vacuum. G. Francis. 
A pool; a plash. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To plead. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 
pl. of Pleuron. 
Same as Pleuron. 
A warrant or assurance. [Obs.] 
A network of vessels, nerves, or fibers. 
See Play. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Full See Plein. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An old term for a river boat. 
A disease of the hair (Plica polonica), in which it becomes twisted and matted together. The disease is of Polish origin, and is hence called also Polish plait. Dunglison. 
imp. & p. p. of Ply. 
A kind of small pinchers with long jaws, -- used for bending or cutting metal rods or wire, for handling small objects such as the parts of a watch, etc. 
imp. & p. p. of Plight, to pledge. Chaucer. 
imp. & p. p. of Pluck. Chaucer. 
To weave; to braid; to fold; to plait.[Obs.] "To sew and plight." Chaucer. A plighted garment of divers colors. Milton. 
A network; a plait; a fold; rarely a garment. [Obs.] "Many a folded plight." Spenser. 
Condition; state; -- risk, or exposure to danger, often being implied; as, a luckless plight. "Your plight is pitied." Shak. To bring our craft all in another plight Chaucer. 
One who, or that which, plights. 
To swell, as grain or wood with water. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
(Arch.) In classical architecture, a vertically faced member immediately below the circular base of a column; also, the lowest member of a pedestal; hence, in general, the lowest member of a base; a sub-base; a block upon which the moldings of an architrave or trim are stopped at the bottom. See Illust. of Column. 
An instrument of punishment or torture resembling the knout, used in Russia. 
A mixture of hair and tar for covering the bottom of a ship. 
A figure in which a word is separated or repeated by way of emphasis, so as not only to signify the individual thing denoted by it, but also its peculiar attribute or quality; as, "His wife's a wife indeed." Bailey. 
To walk on slowly or heavily. The ploughman homeward plods his weary way. Gray. 
To cleanse, as open drains which are entered by the tide, by stirring up the sediment when the tide ebbs. 
To fall, drop, or move in any way, with a sudden splash or slap, as on the surface of water. 
Act of plopping; the sound made in plopping. 
A plan or draught of a field, farm, estate, etc., drawn to a scale. 
To make a plot, map, pr plan, of; to mark the position of on a plan; to delineate. This treatise plotteth down Cornwall as it now standeth. Carew. 
To plan; to scheme; to devise; to contrive secretly. "Plotting an unprofitable crime." Dryden. "Plotting now the fall of others." Milton 
See Plow. 
Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds belonging to the family Charadridæ, and especially those belonging to the subfamily Charadrinsæ. They are prized as game birds. 
Sport; frolic. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To form a column from a line of troops on some designated subdivision; -- the opposite of deploy. Wilhelm. 
To reject at an examination for degrees. C. Bronté. To pluck away, to pull away, or to separate by pulling; to tear away. -- To pluck down, to pull down; to demolish; to reduce to a lower state. -- to pluck off, to pull or tear off; as, to pluck off the skin. -- to pluck up. (a) To tear up by the roots or from the foundation; to eradicate; to exterminate; to destroy; as, to pluck up a plant; to pluk up a nation. Jer. xii. 17. (b) To gather up; to summon; as, to pluck up courage. 
To make a motion of pulling or twitching; -- usually with at; as, to pluck at one's gown. 
The heart, liver, and lights of an animal. 
Having pluck or courage; characterized by pluck; displaying pluck; courageous; spirited; as, a plucky race. If you're plucky, and not over subject to fright. Barham. 
To throw out, as smoke, dust, etc., in puffs. [Scot.] 
A block of wood let into a wall, to afford a hold for nails. Fire plug, a street hydrant to which hose may be attached. [U. S.] -- Hawse plug (Naut.), a plug to stop a hawse hole. -- Plug and feather. (Stone Working) See Feather, n., 7. -- Plug centerbit, a centerbit ending in a small cylinder instead of a point, so as to follow and enlarge a hole previously made, or to form a counterbore around it. -- Plug rod (Steam Eng.) , a rod attached to the beam for working the valves, as in the Cornish engine. -- Plug valve (Mech.), a tapering valve, which turns in a case like the plug of a faucet. 
To stop with a plug; to make tight by stopping a hole. 
The edible drupaceous fruit of the Prunus domestica, and of several other species of Prunus; also, the tree itself, usually called plum tree. The bullace, the damson, and the numerous varieties of plum, of our gardens, although growing into thornless trees, are believed to be varieties of the blackthorn, produced by long cultivation. G. Bentham. are in bold format, like collocations. 
A feather. 
A little mass or weight of lead, or the like, attached to a line, and used by builders, etc., to indicate a vertical direction; a plummet; a plumb bob. See Plumb line, below. Plumb bob. See Bob, 4. -- Plumb joint, in sheet-metal work, a lap joint, fastened by solder. -- Plumb level. See under Level. -- Plumb line. (a) The cord by which a plumb bob is suspended; a plummet. (b) A line directed to the center of gravity of the earth. -- Plumb rule, a narrow board with a plumb line, used by builders and carpenters. 
Perpendicular; vertical; conforming the direction of a line attached to a plumb; as, the wall is plumb. 
In a plumb direction; perpendicularly. "Plumb down he falls." Milton. 
Leadwork [R.] 
An ornamental tuft of feathers. 
Without plumes. 
Of the nature of a plum; desirable; profitable; advantageous. [Colloq.] "For the sake of getting something plummy." G. Eliot. 
Well rounded or filled out; full; fleshy; fat; as, a plump baby; plump cheeks. Shak. The god of wine did his plump clusters bring. T. Carew. 
A knot; a cluster; a group; a crowd; a flock; as, a plump of trees, fowls, or spears. [Obs.] To visit islands and the plumps of men. Chapman. 
Directly; suddenly; perpendicularly. "Fall plump." Beau. & Fl. 
Plump; fat; sleek. "Plumpy Bacchus." Shak. 
Covered or adorned with plumes, or as with plumes; feathery. "His plumy crest." Addison. "The plumy trees." J. S. Blackie. 
A boiler in which clay is beaten by a wheel to a creamy consistence. Knight. 
A kind of blue color; also, anciently, a kind of cloth, generally blue. 
Relating to, or containing, more than one; designating two or more; as, a plural word. Plural faith, which is too much by one. Shak. Plural number (Gram.), the number which designates more than one. See Number, n., 8. 
The plural number; that form of a word which expresses or denotes more than one; a word in the plural form. 
More, required to be added; positive, as distinguished from negative; -- opposed to Ant: minus. 
A textile fabric with a nap or shag on one side, longer and softer than the nap of velvet. Cowper. 
Like plush; soft and shaggy. H. Kingsley. 
The son of Saturn and Rhea, brother of Jupiter and Neptune; the dark and gloomy god of the Lower World. Pluto monkey (Zoöl.), a long- tailed African monkey (Cercopithecus pluto), having side whiskers. The general color is black, more or less grizzled; the frontal band is white. 
The son of Jason and Ceres, and the god of wealth. He was represented as bearing a cornucopia, and as blind, because his gifts were bestowed without discrimination of merit. 
To work to windward; to beat. 
One who, or that which, plies; specifically: (a) pl. 
See Plight. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The place at Athens where the meetings of the people were held for making decrees, etc. 
A genus of grasses, including a great number of species, as the kinds called meadow grass, Kentucky blue grass, June grass, and spear grass (which see). 
To steal or pocket game, or to carry it away privately, as in a bag; to kill or destroy game contrary to law, especially by night; to hunt or fish unlawfully; as, to poach for rabbits or for salmon. 
To become soft or muddy. Chalky and clay lands . . . chap in summer, and poach in winter. Mortimer. 
Wet and soft; easily penetrated by the feet of cattle; -- said of land 
The poke (Phytolacca decandra); -- called also pocan bush. 
A pustule raised on the surface of the body in variolous and vaccine diseases. Of pokkes and of scab every sore. Chaucer. 
A hole or space covered by a movable piece of board, as in a floor, boxing, partitions, or the like. 
A small book or case for carrying papers, money, etc., in the pocket; also, a notebook for the pocket. 
Full of pocks; affected with smallpox or other eruptive disease. Bp. Hall. 
A little; -- used chiefly in phrases indicating the time or movement; as, poco più allegro, a little faster; poco largo, rather slow. Poco a poco Etym: [It.] (Mus.) Little by little; as, poco a poco crescendo, gradually increasing in loudness. 
Peacock. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A capsule of plant, especially a legume; a dry dehiscent fruit. See Illust. of Angiospermous. 
To swell; to fill; also, to produce pods. 
Having pods. 
One who collects pods or pulse. 
Fat and short; pudgy. 
A low wall, serving as a foundation, a substructure, or a terrace wall. It is especially employed by archæologists in two senses: (a) The dwarf wall surrounding the arena of an amphitheater, from the top of which the seats began. (b) The masonry under the stylobate of a temple, sometimes a mere foundation, sometimes containing chambers. See Illust. of Column. 
A young coalfish. 
Any small leaping thysanurous insect of the genus Podura and related genera; a springtail. Podura scale (Zoöl.), one of the minute scales with which the body of a podura is covered. They are used as test objects for the microscope. 
Same as Pol. 
Pertaining to a poem, or to poetry; poetical. [R.] Coleridge. 
One skilled in making poetry; one who has a particular genius for metrical composition; the author of a poem; an imaginative thinker or writer. The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven. Shak. A poet is a maker, as the word signifies. Dryden. Poet laureate. See under Laureate. 
An angle in the south transept of Westminster Abbey, London; -- so called because it contains the tombs of Chaucer, Spenser, Dryden, Ben Jonson, Gray, Tennyson, Browning, and other English poets, and memorials to many buried elsewhere. 
The menhaden. 
An exclamation expressing contempt or disgust; bah ! 
A national food of the Hawaiians, made by baking and pounding the kalo (or taro) root, and reducing it to a thin paste, which is allowed to ferment. 
A Mexican shrub (Euphorbia pulcherrima) with very large and conspicuous vermilion bracts below the yellowish flowers. 
To appoint. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A dot or mark used to designate certain tones or time; as: (a) (Anc. Mus.) A dot or mark distinguishing or characterizing certain tones or styles; as, points of perfection, of augmentation, etc.; hence, a note; a tune. "Sound the trumpet -- not a levant, or a flourish, but a point of war." Sir W. Scott. (b) (Mod. Mus.) A dot placed at the right hand of a note, to raise its value, or prolong its time, by one half, as to make a whole note equal to three half notes, a half note equal to three quarter notes. 
To fill up and finish the joints of (a wall), by introducing additional cement or mortar, and bringing it to a smooth surface. 
To approximate to the surface; to head; -- said of an abscess. To point at, to treat with scorn or contempt by pointing or directing attention to. -- To point well (Naut.), to sail close to the wind; -- said of a vessel. 
To hang in equilibrium; to be balanced or suspended; hence, to be in suspense or doubt. The slender, graceful spars Poise aloft in air. Longfellow. 
The balancer of dipterous insects. 
To act as, or convey, a poison. Tooth that poisons if it bite. Shak. 
See Poise. [Obs.] 
A tall drinking cup. 
A large North American herb of the genus Phytolacca (P. decandra), bearing dark purple juicy berries; -- called also garget, pigeon berry, pocan, and pokeweed. The root and berries have emetic and purgative properties, and are used in medicine. The young shoots are sometimes eaten as a substitute for asparagus, and the berries are said to be used in Europe to color wine. 
To put a poke on; as, to poke an ox. [Colloq. U. S.] To poke fun, to excite fun; to joke; to jest. [Colloq.] -- To poke fun at, to make a butt of; to ridicule. [Colloq.] 
To search; to feel one's way, as in the dark; to grope; as, to poke about. A man must have poked into Latin and Greek. Prior. 
The European long-tailed titmouse; -- called also poke-pudding. [Prov. Eng.] 
The poachard. [Prov. Eng.] Poker picture, a picture formed in imitation of bisterwashed drawings, by singeing the surface of wood with a heated poker or other iron. Fairholt. 
A game at cards derived from brag, and first played about 1835 in the Southwestern United States. Johnson's Cyc. 
Any imagined frightful object, especially one supposed to haunt the darkness; a bugbear. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A pocket. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Poky. 
Drudging; servile. [Colloq.] Bred to some poking profession. Gray. 
A vessel with two or three masts, used in the Mediterranean. The masts are usually of one piece, and without tops, caps, or crosstrees. 
A Polander. Shak. 
Pertaining to, reckoned from, or having a common radiating point; as, polar coördinates. Polar axis, that axis of an astronomical instrument, as an equatorial, which is parallel to the earths axis. -- Polar bear (Zoöl.), a large bear (Ursus, or Thalarctos, maritimus) inhabiting the arctic regions. It sometimes measures nearly nine feet in length and weighs 1,600 pounds. It is partially amphibious, very powerful, and the most carnivorous of all the bears. The fur is white, tinged with yellow. Called also White bear. See Bear. -- Polar body, cell, or globule (Biol.), a minute cell which separates by karyokinesis from the ovum during its maturation. In the maturation of ordinary ova two polar bodies are formed, but in parthogenetic ova only one. The first polar body formed is usually larger than the second one, and often divides into two after its separation from the ovum. Each of the polar bodies removes maternal chromatin from the ovum to make room for the chromatin of the fertilizing spermatozoön; but their functions are not fully understood. -- Polar circles (Astron. & Geog.), two circles, each at a distance from a pole of the earth equal to the obliquity of the ecliptic, or about 23º 28', the northern called the arctic circle, and the southern the antarctic circle. -- Polar clock, a tube, containing a polarizing apparatus, turning on an axis parallel to that of the earth, and indicating the hour of the day on an hour circle, by being turned toward the plane of maximum polarization of the light of the sky, which is always 90º from the sun. -- Polar coördinates. See under 3d Coördinate. -- Polar dial, a dial whose plane is parallel to a great circle passing through the poles of the earth. Math. Dict. -- Polar distance, the angular distance of any point on a sphere from one of its poles, particularly of a heavenly body from the north pole of the heavens. -- Polar equation of a line or surface, an equation which expresses the relation between the polar coördinates of every point of the line or surface. -- Polar forces (Physics), forces that are developed and act in pairs, with opposite tendencies or properties in the two elements, as magnetism, electricity, etc. -- Polar hare (Zoöl.), a large hare of Arctic America (Lepus arcticus), which turns pure white in winter. It is probably a variety of the common European hare (L. timidus). -- Polar lights, the aurora borealis or australis. -- Polar, or Polaric, opposition or contrast (Logic), an opposition or contrast made by the existence of two opposite conceptions which are the extremes in a species, as white and black in colors; hence, as great an opposition or contrast as possible. -- Polar projection. See under Projection. -- Polar spherical triangle (Spherics), a spherical triangle whose three angular points are poles of the sides of a given triangle. See 4th Pole, 2. -- Polar whale (Zoöl.), the right whale, or bowhead. See Whale. 
The right line drawn through the two points of contact of the two tangents drawn from a given point to a given conic section. The given point is called the pole of the line. If the given point lies within the curve so that the two tangents become imaginary, there is still a real polar line which does not meet the curve, but which possesses other properties of the polar. Thus the focus and directrix are pole and polar. There are also poles and polar curves to curves of higher degree than the second, and poles and polar planes to surfaces of the second degree. 
Tending to a pole; having a direction toward a pole. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 
A tract of low land reclaimed from the sea by of high embankments. [Holland & Belgium] 
A native or inhabitant of Poland; a Polander. 
A point upon the surface of a sphere equally distant from every part of the circumference of a great circle; or the point in which a diameter of the sphere perpendicular to the plane of such circle meets the surface. Such a point is called the pole of that circle; as, the pole of the horizon; the pole of the ecliptic; the pole of a given meridian. 
Warfare; war; hence, contention; opposition. [Obs.] 
One who poles. 
An extortioner. See Poller. [Obs.] Bacon. 
See Poly. 
Without horns; polled. [Prov. Eng.] "That poley heifer." H. Kingsley. 
Military police, the body of soldiers detailed to preserve civil order and attend to sanitary arrangements in a camp or garrison. 
To make clean; as, to police a camp. 
To regulate by laws; to reduce to order. [Obs.] "Policying of cities." Bacon. 
The operation of dispersing worm casts over the walks with poles. 
Of or pertaining to Poland or its inhabitants. -- n. 
To become smooth, as from friction; to receive a gloss; to take a smooth and glossy surface; as, steel polishes well. Bacon. 
Capable of being polished. 
To polish; to refine; to render polite. [Obs.] Ray. 
The act of inflating the middle ear by blowing air up the nose during the act of swallowing; -- so called from Prof. Politzer of Vienna, who first practiced it. 
A pulley. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A lively Bohemian or Polish dance tune in 2-4 measure, with the third quaver accented. Polka jacket, a kind of knit jacket worn by women. 
A parrot; -- familiarly so called. 
One who does not try for honors, but is content to take a degree merely; a passman. [Cambridge Univ., Eng.] 
The place where the votes are cast or recorded; as, to go to the polls. 
To cut or shave smooth or even; to cut in a straight line without indentation; as, a polled deed. See Dee. Burrill. To poll a jury, to call upon each member of the jury to answer individually as to his concurrence in a verdict which has been rendered. 
To vote at an election. Beaconsfield. 
A lake whitefish (Coregonus pollan), native of Ireland. In appearance it resembles a herring. 
A poleax. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Deprived of a poll, or of something belonging to the poll. Specifically: (a) Lopped; -- said of trees having their tops cut off. (b) Cropped; hence, bald; -- said of a person. "The polled bachelor." Beau. & Fl. (c) Having cast the antlers; -- said of a stag. (d) Without horns; as, polled cattle; polled sheep. 
The fecundating dustlike cells of the anthers of flowers. See Flower, and Illust. of Filament. Pollen grain (Bot.), a particle or call of pollen. -- Pollen mass, a pollinium. Gray. -- Pollen sac, a compartment of an anther containing pollen, -- usually there are four in each anther. -- Pollen tube, a slender tube which issues from the pollen grain on its contact with the stigma, which it penetrates, thus conveying, it is supposed, the fecundating matter of the grain to the ovule. 
One who polls; specifically: (a) One who polls or lops trees. (b) One who polls or cuts hair; a barber. [R.] (c) One who extorts or plunders. [Obs.] Bacon. (d) One who registers voters, or one who enters his name as a voter. 
The first, or preaxial, digit of the fore limb, corresponding to the hallux in the hind limb; the thumb. In birds, the pollex is the joint which bears the bastard wing. 
A fixed star of the second magnitude, in the constellation Gemini. Cf. 3d Castor. 
A woman's name; also, a popular name for a parrot. 
Of or pertaining to the Poles, or to Poland. [Written also Polonese.] 
A kind of sausage made of meat partly cooked. 
See Pauldron. 
A blow or thump. Halliwell. -- a. 
A polliwig. Holland. 
A whitish woolly plant (Teucrium Polium) of the order Labiatæ, found throughout the Mediterranean region. The name, with sundry prefixes, is sometimes given to other related species of the same genus. [Spelt also poley.] Poly mountain. See Poly-mountain, in Vocabulary. 
Same as Anthozoa. See Anthozoa, Madreporaria, Hydroid. [Written also polype.] Fresh-water polyp, the hydra. -- Polyp stem (Zoöl.), that portion of the stem of a siphonophore which bears the polypites, or feeding zooids. 
See Polyp. 
The Anthozoa. 
A pulley. [Obs.] 
The substance of apples, or of similar fruit, crushed by grinding. 
Having the nostril covered with a scale. Pomarine jager (Zoöl.), a North Atlantic jager (Stercorarius pomarinus) having the elongated middle tail feathers obtuse. The adult is black. 
A fruit composed of several cartilaginous or bony carpels inclosed in an adherent fleshy mass, which is partly receptacle and partly calyx, as an apple, quince, or pear. 
To grow to a head, or form a head in growing. [Obs.] 
A pommel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A variety of shaddock, called also grape fruit. 
Dappled. [Obs.] "Pomely gray." Chaucer. 
A figure supposed to resemble an apple; a roundel, -- always of a green color. 
Having the ends terminating in rounded protuberances or single balls; -- said of a cross. 
A knob or ball; an object resembling a ball in form; as: (a) The knob on the hilt of a sword. Macaulay. (b) The knob or protuberant part of a saddlebow. (c) The top (of the head). Chaucer. (d) A knob forming the finial of a turret or pavilion. 
To beat soundly, as with the pommel of a sword, or with something knoblike; hence, to beat with the fists. [Written also pummel.] 
The goddess of fruits and fruit trees. 
To make a pompons display; to conduct. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
The ball formerly used to ink the type. 
A tuft or ball of wool, or the like, sometimes worn by soldiers on the front of the hat, instead of a feather. 
A body of water, naturally or artificially confined, and usually of less extent than a lake. "Through pond or pool." Milton. Pond hen (Zoöl.), the American coot. See Coot (a). -- Pond lily (Bot.), the water lily. See under Water, and Illust. under Nymphæa. -- Pond snail (Zoöl.), any gastropod living in fresh-water ponds or lakes. The most common kinds are air-breathing snails (Pulmonifera) belonging to Limnæa, Physa, Planorbis, and allied genera. The operculated species are pectinibranchs, belonging to Melantho, Valvata, and various other genera. -- Pond spice (Bot.), an American shrub (Tetranthera geniculata) of the Laurel family, with small oval leaves, and axillary clusters of little yellow flowers. The whole plant is spicy. It grows in ponds and swamps from Virginia to Florida. -- Pond tortoise, Pond turtle (Zoöl.), any freshwater tortoise of the family Emydidæ. Numerous species are found in North America. 
To make into a pond; to collect, as water, in a pond by damming. 
To ponder. [Obs.] Pleaseth you, pond your suppliant's plaint. Spenser. 
To think; to deliberate; to muse; -- usually followed by on or over. Longfellow. 
A kind of johnnycake. [Written also paune.] [Southern U. S.] 
Western; occidental. [R.] Forth rush the levant and the ponent winds. Milton. 
A fabric of undyed silk from India and China. 
Any large ape; especially, the chimpanzee and the orang-outang. 
A bridge; -- applied to several parts which connect others, but especially to the pons Varolii, a prominent band of nervous tissue situated on the ventral side of the medulla oblongata and connected at each side with the hemispheres of the cerebellum; the mesocephalon. See Brain. Pons asinorum. Etym: [L., literally, bridge of asses.] See Asses' bridge, under Ass. 
An iron rod used by glass makers for manipulating the hot glass; -- called also, puntil, puntel, punty, and ponty. See Fascet. 
Of or pertaining to the Pontus, Euxine, or Black Sea. 
Same as Pontee. 
See Pontoon. 
See Pontee. 
A Russian weight, equal to forty Russian pounds or about thirty-six English pounds avoirdupois. 
A breed of dogs having curly hair, and often showing remarkable intelligence in the performance of tricks. 
Pshaw! pish! nonsense! -- an expression of scorn, dislike, or contempt. 
A red African antelope (Kobus Vardoni) allied to the water buck. 
A mutual arrangement between competing lines, by which the receipts of all are aggregated, and then distributed pro rata according to agreement. 
To put together; to contribute to a common fund, on the basis of a mutual division of profits or losses; to make a common interest of; as, the companies pooled their traffic. Finally, it favors the poolingof all issues. U. S. Grant. 
To combine or contribute with others, as for a commercial, speculative, or gambling transaction. 
A stick for stirring a tan vat. 
A name for several East Indian, or their wood, used for the masts and spars of vessels, as Calophyllum angustifolium, C. inophullum, and Sterculia foetida; -- called also peon. 
A kind of oil cake prepared from the cocoanut. See Oil cake, under Cake. 
See 2d Poppy. 
To make a noise; to pop; also, to break wind. 
A deck raised above the after part of a vessel; the hindmost or after part of a vessel's hull; also, a cabin covered by such a deck. See Poop deck, under Deck. See also Roundhouse. With wind in poop, the vessel plows the sea. Dryden. The poop was beaten gold. Shak. 
The act or shock of striking a vessel's stern by a following wave or vessel. 
So completely destitute of property as to be entitled to maintenance from the public. 
A small European codfish (Gadus minutus); -- called also power cod. 
Somewhat ill; indisposed; not in health. "Having been poorly in health." T. Scott. 
The European redwing. [Prov. Eng.] Pop corn. (a) Corn, or maize, of peculiar excellence for popping; especially, a kind the grains of which are small and compact. (b) Popped corn; which has been popped. 
Like a pop; suddenly; unexpectedly. "Pop goes his plate." Beau. & Fl. 
A fish; the ruff. Pope Joan, a game at cards played on a round board with compartments. -- Pope's eye, the gland surrounded with fat in the middle of the thigh of an ox or sheep. R. D. Blackmore. -- Pope's nose, the rump, or uropygium, of a bird. See Uropygium. 
The religion of the Roman Catholic Church, comprehending doctrines and practices; -- generally used in an opprobrious sense. 
A puppet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A child's gun; a tube and rammer for shooting pellets, with a popping noise, by compression of air. 
Of or pertaining to the pope; taught or ordained by the pope; hence, of or pertaining to the Roman Catholic Church; -- often used opprobriously. -- Pop"ish*ly, adv. -- Pop"ish*ness, n. 
Apoplexy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A fabric of many varieties, usually made of silk and worsted, - - used especially for women's dresses. Irish poplin, a fabric with silk warp and worsted weft, made in Ireland. 
A utensil for popping corn, usually a wire basket with a long handle. 
A dagger. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One of certain upright timbers on the bilge ways, used to support a vessel in launching. Totten. 
To move quickly up and down; to bob up and down, as a cork on rough water; also, to bubble. Cotton. 
Any plant or species of the genus Papaver, herbs with showy polypetalous flowers and a milky juice. From one species (Papaver somniferum) opium is obtained, though all the species contain it to some extent; also, a flower of the plant. See Illust. of Capsule. California poppy (Bot.), any yellow-flowered plant of the genus Eschscholtzia. -- Corn poppy. See under Corn. -- Horn, or Horned, poppy. See under Horn. -- Poppy bee (Zoöl.), a leaf-cutting bee (Anthocopa papaveris) which uses pieces cut from poppy petals for the lining of its cells; -- called also upholsterer bee. -- Prickly poppy (Bot.), Argemone Mexicana, a yellow-flowered plant of the Poppy family, but as prickly as a thistle. -- Poppy seed, the seed the opium poppy (P. somniferum). -- Spatling poppy (Bot.), a species of Silene (S. inflata). See Catchfly. 
A covered and inclosed entrance to a building, whether taken from the interior, and forming a sort of vestibule within the main wall, or projecting without and with a separate roof. Sometimes the porch is large enough to serve as a covered walk. See also Carriage porch, under Carriage, and Loggia. The graceless Helen in the porch I spied Of Vesta's temple. Dryden. 
To look or gaze steadily in reading or studying; to fix the attention; to be absorbed; -- often with on or upon, and now usually with over."Painfully to pore upon a book." Shak. The eye grows weary with poring perpetually on the same thing. Dryden. 
One who pores. 
A grand division of the Invertebrata, including the sponges; -- called also Spongiæ, Spongida, and Spongiozoa. The principal divisions are Calcispongiæ, Keratosa or Fibrospongiæ, and Silicea. 
A theorem or proposition so easy of demonstration as to be almost self-evident. [R.] Crabb. 
A proposition affirming the possibility of finding such conditions as will render a certain determinate problem indeterminate or capable of innumerable solutions. Playfair. 
Any coral of the genus Porites, or family Poritidæ. 
The flesh of swine, fresh or salted, used for food. 
A hog. Pope. 
A young hog; a pig. [R.] Dryden. W. Howitt. 
Full of pores; having interstices in the skin or in the substance of the body; having spiracles or passages for fluids; permeable by liquids; as, a porous skin; porous wood. "The veins of porous earth." Milton. 
A porpoise. [Obs.] Swift. 
A scallion; a leek or small onion. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 
A dark red or purple astringent wine made in Portugal. It contains a large percentage of alcohol. 
An opening in the side of a vessel; an embrasure through which cannon may be discharged; a porthole; also, the shutters which close such an opening. Her ports being within sixteen inches of the water. Sir W. Raleigh. 
To throw, as a musket, diagonally across the body, with the lock in front, the right hand grasping the small of the stock, and the barrel sloping upward and crossing the point of the left shoulder; as, to port arms. Began to hem him round with ported spears. Milton. Port arms, a position in the manual of arms, executed as above. 
The manner in which a person bears himself; deportment; carriage; bearing; demeanor; hence, manner or style of living; as, a proud port. Spenser. And of his port as meek as is a maid. Chaucer. The necessities of pomp, grandeur, and a suitable port in the world. South. 
The larboard or left side of a ship (looking from the stern toward the bow); as, a vessel heels to port. See Note under Larboard. Also used adjectively. 
To turn or put to the left or larboard side of a ship; -- said of the helm, and used chiefly in the imperative, as a command; as, port your helm. 
The quality or state of being portable; fitness to be carried. 
The space, at one end, between opposite trusses when these are terminated by inclined braces. 
Of or pertaining to a porta, especially the porta of the liver; as, the portal vein, which enters the liver at the porta, and divides into capillaries after the manner of an artery. 
The Ottoman court; the government of the Turkish empire, officially called the Sublime Porte, from the gate (port) of the sultan's palace at which justice was administered. 
Having gates. [Obs.] We took the sevenfold-ported Thebes. Chapman. 
A man who has charge of a door or gate; a doorkeeper; one who waits at the door to receive messages. Shak. To him the porter openeth. John x. 3. 
A bar of iron or steel at the end of which a forging is made; esp., a long, large bar, to the end of which a heavy forging is attached, and by means of which the forging is lifted and handled is hammering and heating; -- called also porter bar. 
An inhabitant or burgess of a port, esp. of one of the Cinque Ports. 
See Portass. [Obs.] 
Porous; as, pory stone. [R.] Dryden. 
Standing still, with all the feet on the ground; -- said of the attitude of a lion, horse, or other beast. 
A cold in the head; catarrh. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The attitude or position of a person; the position of the body or of any member of the body; especially, a position formally assumed for the sake of effect; an artificial position; as, the pose of an actor; the pose of an artist's model or of a statue. 
To place in an attitude or fixed position, for the sake of effect; to arrange the posture and drapery of (a person) in a studied manner; as, to pose a model for a picture; to pose a sitter for a portrait. 
To assume and maintain a studied attitude, with studied arrangement of drapery; to strike an attitude; to attitudinize; figuratively, to assume or affect a certain character; as, she poses as a prude. He . . . posed before her as a hero. Thackeray. 
Firm; determined; fixed. "A most posed . . . and grave behavior." [Obs.] Urquhart. 
One who, or that which, puzzles; a difficult or inexplicable question or fact. Bacon. 
Inscribed with a posy. In poised lockets bribe the fair. Gay. 
To assume as real or conceded; as, to posit a principle. Sir W. Hamilton. 
A little basin; a porringer; a skillet. 
To push; to dash; to throw. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] A cat . . . possed them [the rats] about. Piers Plowman. 
See Posse comitatus. In posse. See In posse in the Vocabulary. 
A beverage composed of hot milk curdled by some strong infusion, as by wine, etc., -- much in favor formerly. "I have drugged their posset." Shak. 
Capable of existing or occurring, or of being conceived or thought of; able to happen; capable of being done; not contrary to the nature of things; -- sometimes used to express extreme improbability; barely able to be, or to come to pass; as, possibly he is honest, as it is possible that Judas meant no wrong. With God all things are possible. Matt. xix. 26. 
An opossum. [Colloq. U. S.] To play possum, To act possum, to feign ignorance, indifference or inattention, with the intent to deceive; to dissemble; -- in allusion to the habit of the opossum, which feigns death when attacked or alarmed. 
Hired to do what is wrong; suborned. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 
To carry, as an account, from the journal to the ledger; as, to post an account; to transfer, as accounts, to the ledger. You have not posted your books these ten years. Arbuthnot. 
To rise and sink in the saddle, in accordance with the motion of the horse, esp. in trotting. [Eng.] 
With post horses; hence, in haste; as, to travel post. 
Belonging to the post office or mail service; as, postal arrangements; postal authorities. Postal card, or Post card, a card sold by the government for transmission through the mails, at a lower rate of postage than a sealed letter. The message is written on one side of the card, and the direction on the other. -- Postal money order. See Money order, under Money. -- Postal note, an order payable to bearer, for a sum of money (in the United States less than five dollars under existing law), issued from one post office and payable at another specified office. -- Postal Union, a union for postal purposes entered into by the most important powers, or governments, which have agreed to transport mail matter through their several territories at a stipulated rate. 
The return of the judge before whom a cause was tried, after a verdict, of what was done in the cause, which is indorsed on the nisi prius record. Wharton. 
Apostle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
At or toward the caudal extremity; caudal; -- in human anatomy often used for dorsal. 
Backward. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
A short homily or commentary on a passage of Scripture; as, the first postils were composed by order of Charlemagne. 
To write marginal or explanatory notes on; to gloss. Bacon. 
To write postils, or marginal notes; to comment; to postillate. Postiling and allegorizing on Scripture. J. H. Newman. 
A flower; a bouquet; a nosegay. "Bridegroom's posies." Spenser. We make a difference between suffering thistles to grow among us, and wearing them for posies. Swift. 
To place or inclose in pots; as: (a) To preserve seasoned in pots. "Potted fowl and fish." Dryden. (b) To set out or cover in pots; as, potted plants or bulbs. (c) To drain; as, to pot sugar, by taking it from the cooler, and placing it in hogsheads, etc., having perforated heads, through which the molasses drains off. B. Edwards. (d) (Billiards) To pocket. 
To tipple; to drink. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] It is less labor to plow than to pot it. Feltham. 
See Pottage. 
The refuse from a grain distillery, used to fatten swine. 
Potash. [Obs.] 
A drinker. [R.] Southey. 
A boy who carries pots of ale, beer, etc.; a menial in a public house. 
To thrust; to push. [Obs.] "I 'll potch at him some way." Shak. 
See Poach, to cook. [Obs.] Wiseman. 
Whisky; especially, whisky illicitly distilled by the Irish peasantry. [Written also potheen, and potteen.] 
A staff or crutch. [Obs.] 
An apothecary. [Obs.] 
Bustle; confusion; tumult; flutter; bother. [Written also potter, and pudder.] "What a pother and stir!" Oldham. "Coming on with a terrible pother." Wordsworth. 
To make a bustle or stir; to be fussy. 
To harass and perplex; to worry. "Pothers and wearies himself." Locke. 
A draught; a dose; usually, a draught or dose of a liquid medicine. Shak. 
To drug. [Obs.] Speed. 
The lid or cover of a pot. Potlid valve, a valve covering a round hole or the end of a pipe or pump barrel, resembling a potlid in form. 
A large South American goatsucker (Nyctibius grandis). 
A meat pie which is boiled instead of being baked. 
A size of paper. See under Paper. 
The red-bellied terrapin. See Terrapin. Potter's asthma (Med.), emphysema of the lungs; -- so called because very prevalent among potters. Parkers. -- Potter's clay. See under Clay. -- Potter's field, a public burial place, especially in a city, for paupers, unknown persons, and criminals; -- so named from the field south of Jerusalem, mentioned in Matt. xxvii. 7. -- Potter's ore. See Alquifou. -- Potter's wheel, a horizontal revolving disk on which the clay is molded into form with the hands or tools. "My thoughts are whirled like a potter's wheel." Shak. Potter wasp (Zoöl.), a small solitary wasp (Eumenes fraternal) which constructs a globular nest of mud and sand in which it deposits insect larvæ, such as cankerworms, as food for its young. 
To poke; to push; also, to disturb; to confuse; to bother. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Caries of the vertebræ, frequently resulting in curvature of the spine and paralysis of the lower extremities; -- so named from Percival Pott, an English surgeon. Pott's fracture, a fracture of the lower end of the fibula, with displacement of the tibia. Dunglison. 
See Pouncet box. 
Dust; powder. [Obs.] Chaucer. Poudre marchant Etym: [see Merchant], a kind of flavoring powder used in the Middle Ages. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A young chicken, partridge, grouse, or the like. King. Chapman. Starling the heath poults or black game. R. Jefferise. 
To sprinkle or rub with pounce; as, to pounce paper, or a pattern. 
To fall suddenly and seize with the claws; -- with on or upon; as, a hawk pounces upon a chicken. Also used figuratively. Derision is never so agonizing as when it pounces on the wanderings of misguided sensibility. Jeffrey. 
To make a jarring noise, as in running; as, the engine pounds. 
A kind of net, having a large inclosure with a narrow entrance into which fish are directed by wings spreading outward. Pound covert, a pound that is close or covered over, as a shed. -- Pound overt, a pound that is open overhead. 
To confine in, or as in, a pound; to impound. Milton. 
The sum allowed to a sheriff or other officer upon the amount realized by an execution; -- estimated in England, and formerly in the United States, at so much of the pound. Burrill. Bouvier. 
See Powp. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Poor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To pore. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To flow, pass, or issue in a stream, or as a stream; to fall continuously and abundantly; as, the rain pours; the people poured out of the theater. In the rude throng pour on with furious pace. Gay. 
A stream, or something like a stream; a flood. [Colloq.] "A pour of rain." Miss Ferrier. 
One who pours. 
Pulse; pease. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The young of some birds, as grouse; a young fowl. Carew. 
To shoot pouts. [Scot.] 
To protrude. "Pouting lips." Dryden. 
A sullen protrusion of the lips; a fit of sullenness. "Jack's in the pouts." J. & H. Smith. 
The European whiting pout or bib. Eel pout. (Zoöl.) See Eelpout. -- Horn pout, or Horned pout. (Zoöl.) See Bullhead (b). 
A variety of the domestic pigeon remarkable for the extent to which it is able to dilate its throat and breast. 
Poverty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Semé. Walpole. 
See Powdery. 
Same as Poor, the fish. 
The product arising from the multiplication of a number into itself; as, a square is the second power, and a cube is third power, of a number. 
See Poop, v. i. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Pouter. 
Strictly, a disease by pustules or eruptions of any kind, but chiefly or wholly restricted to three or four diseases, -- the smallpox, the chicken pox, and the vaccine and the venereal diseases. 
To infect with the pox, or syphilis. 
A poniard. [Obs.] Lyly. 
A South American armadillo (Dasypus sexcinctus). Called also sixbanded armadillo. 
See 5th Pose. 
A flat-bottomed boat or lighter, -- used in Holland and the Baltic, and sometimes armed in case of war. [Written also pram, and prame.] 
A horse. [Colloq. Eng.] 
Praiseworthy. [Obs.] 
A horse which prances. Then came the captain . . . upon a brave prancer. Evelyn. 
To adorn in a showy manner; to dress or equip ostentatiously; - - often followed by up; as, to prank up the body. See Prink. In sumptuous tire she joyed herself to prank. Spenser. 
To make ostentatious show. White houses prank where once were huts. M. Arnold. 
A gay or sportive action; a ludicrous, merry, or mischievous trick; a caper; a frolic. Spenser. The harpies . . . played their accustomed pranks. Sir W. Raleigh. His pranks have been too broad to bear with. Shak. 
Full of gambols or tricks. [Obs.] 
A variety of cryptocrystalline of a leek-green color. 
To talk much and to little purpose; to be loquacious; to speak foolishly; to babble. To prate and talk for life and honor. Shak. And make a fool presume to prate of love. Dryden. 
To utter foolishly; to speak without reason or purpose; to chatter, or babble. What nonsense would the fool, thy master, prate, When thou, his knave, canst talk at such a rate ! Dryden. 
Talk to little purpose; trifling talk; unmeaning loquacity. Sick of tops, and poetry, and prate. Pope. 
One who prates. Shak. 
See Pratique. 
Any one of numerous species of large shrimplike Crustacea having slender legs and long antennæ. They mostly belong to the genera Pandalus, Palæmon, Palæmonetes, and Peneus, and are much used as food. The common English prawn in Palæmon serratus. 
See Pry. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To make request with earnestness or zeal, as for something desired; to make entreaty or supplication; to offer prayer to a deity or divine being as a religious act; specifically, to address the Supreme Being with adoration, confession, supplication, and thanksgiving. And to his goddess pitously he preyde. Chaucer. When thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Matt. vi. 6. I pray, or (by ellipsis) Pray, I beg; I request; I entreat you; -- used in asking a question, making a request, introducing a petition, etc.; as, Pray, allow me to go. I pray, sir. why am I beaten Shak. 
One who prays; a supplicant. 
Given to prayer; praying much or often; devotional. "The prayerful man." J. S. Blackie. -- Prayer"ful*ly, adv. -- Prayer"ful*ness, n. 
Press. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A religious discourse. [Obs.] Hooker. 
To act beforehand; to perform previously. 
To forearm. [R.] 
To press; to crowd. [Obs.] -- n. 
To surpass; to excel; to exceed. [Obs.] Howell. 
A concise or abridged statement or view; an abstract; a summary. 
Of or pertaining to prey; plundering; predatory. [R.] Boyse. 
To prey; to plunder. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
Prey; plunder; booty. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
Cleared and ready for engagement, as a ship. Smart. 
With ease. [Prov. Eng.] 
Proof. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A forked tool used by clothiers in dressing cloth. 
To engage by previous contract; to bind or attach previously; to preoccupy. But he was preëngaged by former ties. Dryden. 
Press; throng. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The quality or state of being preferable; preferableness. J. S. Mill. 
That which is prefixed; esp., one or more letters or syllables combined or united with the beginning of a word to modify its signification; as, pre- in prefix, con- in conjure. 
Of or pertaining to printing; typographical. [Obs.] Fuller. 
To premise. [Obs.] Donne. 
To pay in advance, or beforehand; as, to prepay postage. 
An East Indian insectivore (Tupaia ferruginea). It is arboreal in its habits, and has a bushy tail. The fur is soft, and varies from rusty red to maroon and to brownish black. 
To force into service, particularly into naval service; to impress. To peaceful peasant to the wars is pressed. Dryden. 
A commission to force men into public service, particularly into the navy. I have misused the king's press. Shak. Press gang, or Pressgang, a detachment of seamen under the command of an officer empowered to force men into the naval service. See Impress gang, under Impress. -- Press money, money paid to a man enlisted into public service. See Prest money, under Prest, a. 
A kind of highly sized rag paper or board, sometimes containing a small admixture of wood pulp; -- so called because used originally, as now, in presses for pressing and finishing knit underwear. 
imp. & p. p. of Press. 
A duty in money formerly paid by the sheriff on his account in the exchequer, or for money left or remaining in his hands. Cowell. 
To give as a loan; to lend. [Obs.] Sums of money . . . prested out in loan. E. Hall. 
Quickly; rapidly; -- a direction for a quick, lively movement or performance; quicker than allegro, or any rate of time except prestissimo. 
To frame; to devise; to disguise or excuse; hence, to pretend; to declare falsely. [Obs.] 
A civil officer or magistrate among the ancient Romans. 
In some degree; moderately; considerably; rather; almost; -- less emphatic than very; as, I am pretty sure of the fact; pretty cold weather. Pretty plainly professes himself a sincere Christian. Atterbury. 
To prove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Proof. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Anything, as goods, etc., taken or got by violence; anything taken by force from an enemy in war; spoil; booty; plunder. And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, unto Moses, and Eleazar the priest. Num. xxxi. 12. 
To take booty; to gather spoil; to ravage; to take food by violence. More pity that the eagle should be mewed, While kites and buzzards prey at liberty. Shak. To prey on or upon. (a) To take prey from; to despoil; to pillage; to rob. Shak. (b) To seize as prey; to take for food by violence; to seize and devour. Shak. (c) To wear away gradually; to cause to waste or pine away; as, the trouble preyed upon his mind. Addison. 
One who, or that which, preys; a plunderer; a waster; a devourer. Hooker. 
A corruption of pair royal. See under Pair, n. 
A fine, white, somewhat friable clay; also, the ore contained in a mixture of clay and pebbles. [Written also pryan.] 
Rated in price; valued; as, high-priced goods; low-priced labor. 
A small roll; as, a prick of spun yarn; a prick of tobacco. 
Having erect, pointed ears; -- said of certain dogs. Thou prick-eared cur of Iceland. Shak. 
Stiff and sharp; prickly. Holland. 
A small European lamprey (Petromyzon branchialis); -- called also prid, and sandpiper. 
To indulge in pride, or self-esteem; to rate highly; to plume; -- used reflexively. Bp. Hall. Pluming and priding himself in all his services. South. 
To be proud; to glory. [R.] 
The plant privet. [Obs.] Tusser. 
To pry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. & p. p. of Pry. 
Proof. [Obs.] Spenser. Lydgate. 
One who pries; one who inquires narrowly and searches, or is inquisitive. So pragmatical a prier he is into divine secrets. Fuller. 
A presbyter elder; a minister; specifically: (a) (R. C. Ch. & Gr. Ch.) One who is authorized to consecrate the host and to say Mass; but especially, one of the lowest order possessing this power. Murdock. (b) (Ch. of Eng. & Prot. Epis. Ch.) 
To ordain as priest. 
To prove. [Obs. or Scot.] 
To haggle about the price of a commodity; to bargain hard. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To filch or steal; as, to prig a handkerchief. [Cant] 
Priggism. 
The brill. 
To flow. [Obs.] Stow. 
A stream. [Obs.] Davies (Microcosmos). 
Tin extracted from the slag. 
The privet. 
Formal; precise; affectedly neat or nice; as, prim regularity; a prim person. Swift. 
To deck with great nicety; to arrange with affected preciseness; to prink. 
To dress or act smartly. [R.] 
First; primary; original; chief. It hath the primal eldest curse upon it. Shak. The primal duties shine aloft like stars. Wordsworth. 
The morning; specifically (R. C. Ch.), the first canonical hour, succeeding to lauds. Early and late it rung, at evening and at prime. Spenser. 
To mark with a prime mark. To prime a pump, to charge a pump with water, in order to put it in working condition. 
One who, or that which, primes; specifically, an instrument or device for priming; esp., a cap, tube, or water containing percussion powder or other capable for igniting a charge of gunpowder. 
First; original; primary. [Obs.] "The primer English kings." Drayton. Primer fine (O. Eng. Law), a fine due to the king on the writ or commencement of a suit by fine. Blackstone. -- Primer seizin (Feudal Law), the right of the king, when a tenant in capite died seized of a knight's fee, to receive of the heir, if of full age, one year's profits of the land if in possession, and half a year's profits if the land was in reversion expectant on an estate for life; -- now abolished. Blackstone. 
A kind of type, of which there are two species; one, called long primer, intermediate in size between bourgeois and small pica [see Long primer]; the other, called great primer, larger than pica. 
In a prim or precise manner. 
First; chief. 
To be formal or affected in dress or manners; -- often with up. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 
One of the bishops of the Episcopal Church of Scotland, who presides at the meetings of the bishops, and has certain privileges but no metropolitan authority. Internat. Cyc. 
Being in its prime. [Obs.] "The youth of primy nature." Shak. 
To play the prince. [R.] Shak. 
To dress or adjust one's self for show; to prank. 
To prank or dress up; to deck fantastically. "And prink their hair with daisies." Cowper. 
To strike off an impression or impressions of, from type, or from stereotype, electrotype, or engraved plates, or the like; in a wider sense, to do the typesetting, presswork, etc., of (a book or other publication); as, to print books, newspapers, pictures; to print an edition of a book. 
A core print. See under Core. Blue print, a copy in white lines on a blue ground, of a drawing, plan, tracing, etc., or a positive picture in blue and white, from a negative, produced by photographic printing on peculiarly prepared paper.blueprint for action -- In print. (a) In a printed form; issued from the press; published. Shak. (b) To the letter; with accurateness. "All this I speak in print." Shak. -- Out of print. See under Out. -- Print works, a factory where cloth, as calico, is printed. 
Preceding in the order of time; former; antecedent; anterior; previous; as, a prior discovery; prior obligation; -- used elliptically in cases like the following: he lived alone [in the time] prior to his marriage. 
The superior of a priory, and next below an abbot in dignity. Conventical, or Conventual, prior, a prior who is at the head of his own house. See the Note under Priory. -- Claustral prior, an official next in rank to the abbot in a monastery; prior of the cloisters. 
A religious house presided over by a prior or prioress; -- sometimes an offshoot of, an subordinate to, an abbey, and called also cell, and obedience. See Cell, 2. 
See Price, and 1st Prize. [Obs.] 
An enterprise. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See Prize, n., 5. Also Prize, v. t. 
See 1st Prizer. [Obs.] 
A solid whose bases or ends are any similar, equal, and parallel plane figures, and whose sides are parallelograms. 
Pertaining to a prism. [R.] 
Imprisonment. [Obs.] Shak. 
A tool employed by blacksmiths for punching or enlarging the nail holes in a horseshoe. 
An ornamental European shrub (Ligustrum vulgare), much used in hedges; -- called also prim. Egyptian privet. See Lawsonia. -- Evergreen privet, a plant of the genus Rhamnus. See Alatern. -- Mock privet, any one of several evergreen shrubs of the genus Phillyrea. They are from the Mediterranean region, and have been much cultivated for hedges and for fancifully clipped shrubberies. 
A partaker; a person having an interest in any action or thing; one who has an interest in an estate created by another; a person having an interest derived from a contract or conveyance to which he is not himself a party. The term, in its proper sense, is distinguished from party. Burrill. Wharton. 
To move with a lever; to force up or open; to pry. [Written also prise.] 
Estimation; valuation. [Obs.] Shak. 
One who estimates or sets the value of a thing; an appraiser. Shak. 
One who contends for a prize; a prize fighter; a challenger. [Obs.] Shak. Appeareth no man yet to answer the prizer. B. Jonson. 
A Latin preposition signifying for, before, forth. Pro confesso Etym: [L.] (Law), taken as confessed. The action of a court of equity on that portion of the pleading in a particular case which the pleading on the other side does not deny. -- Pro rata. Etym: [L. See Prorate.] In proportion; proportion. -- Pro re nata Etym: [L.] (Law), for the existing occasion; as matters are. 
For, on, or in behalf of, the affirmative side; -- in contrast with Ant: con. Pro and con, for and against, on the affirmative and on the negative side; as, they debated the question pro and con; -- formerly used also as a verb. -- Pros and cons, the arguments or reasons on either side. 
A sailing canoe of the Ladrone Islands and Malay Archipelago, having its lee side flat and its weather side like that of an ordinary boat. The ends are alike. The canoe is long and narrow, and is kept from overturning by a cigar-shaped log attached to a frame extending several feet to windward. It has been called the flying proa, and is the swiftest sailing craft known. 
See Approach. [Obs.] 
Approved; probable. [Obs.] Shak. 
An instrument for examining the depth or other circumstances of a wound, ulcer, or cavity, or the direction of a sinus, of for exploring for bullets, for stones in the bladder, etc. Parr. Probe, or Probe-pointed, scissors (Surg.), scissors used to open wounds, the blade of which, to be thrust into the orifice, has a button at the end. Wiseman. 
To thrust some pointed instrument into; to prick with something sharp; as, to prod a soldier with a bayonet; to prod oxen; hence, to goad, to incite, to worry; as, to prod a student. H. Taylor. 
A crossbow. See Prod, 3. 
Preface; introduction; preliminary observations; prelude. Thus much may serve by way of proem. Swift. 
To preface. [Obs.] South. 
To be of service to; to be good to; to help on; to benefit; to advantage; to avail; to aid; as, truth profits all men. The word preached did not profit them. Heb. iv. 2. It is a great means of profiting yourself, to copy diligently excellent pieces and beautiful designs. Dryden. 
Yielding or bringing profit or gain; gainful; lucrative; useful; helpful; advantageous; beneficial; as, a profitable trade; profitable business; a profitable study or profession. What was so profitable to the empire became fatal to the emperor. Arbuthnot. -- Prof"it*a*ble*ness, n. -- Prof"it*a*bly, adv. 
To beget; to generate; to produce; to procreate; as, to progenerate a race. [R.] Landor. 
The act or art of foretelling the course and termination of a disease; also, the outlook afforded by this act of judgment; as, the prognosis of hydrophobia is bad. 
To prog. [Obs.] P. Fletcher. 
A sharp point; a goad. [ Scot. & Local, U. S.] -- v. t. 
To lop; to trim; to prune; to adorn. [Obs.] Chaucer. The sprigs that did about it grow He proined from the leafy arms. Chapman. 
To employed in pruning. [Obs.] 
A plan proposed; a draft of a proposed measure; a project. 
To poke; to thrust. [Obs.] Holland. 
One of the fleshy legs found on the abdominal segments of the larvæ of Lepidoptera, sawflies, and some other insects. Those of Lepidoptera have a circle of hooks. Called also proped, propleg, and falseleg. 
Dilatory; tedious; superfluous. [Obs.] "Lay by all nicety, and prolixious blushes." Shak. 
To search or prowl after; to rob; to plunder. [Obs.] Barrow. 
To prowl about; to rob. [Obs.] South. Though ye prolle aye, ye shall it never find. Chaucer. 
Prologue. 
A limit of time given for payment of an account for produce purchased, this limit varying with different goods. See Prompt-note. To cover any probable difference of price which might arise before the expiration of the prompt, which for this article [tea] is three months. J. S. Mill. 
The book used by a prompter of a theater. 
In a prone manner or position. 
Having prongs or projections like the tines of a fork; as, a three-pronged fork. 
A trial impression, as from type, taken for correction or examination; -- called also proof sheet. 
To arm with proof armor; to arm securely; as, to proof-arm herself. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 
A shell, used as a die. See Props. 
To support, or prevent from falling, by placing something under or against; as, to prop up a fence or an old building; (Fig.) to sustain; to maintain; as, to prop a declining state. Shak. Till the bright mountains prop the incumbent sky. Pope. For being not propp'd by ancestry. Shak. I prop myself upon those few supports that are left me. Pope. 
That which sustains an incumbent weight; that on which anything rests or leans for support; a support; a stay; as, a prop for a building. "Two props of virtue." Shak. 
Same as Proleg. 
To drive forward; to urge or press onward by force; to move, or cause to move; as, the wind or steam propels ships; balls are propelled by gunpowder. 
Represented in its natural color; -- said of any object used as a charge. In proper, individually; privately. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. -- Proper flower or corolla (Bot.), one of the single florets, or corollets, in an aggregate or compound flower. -- Proper fraction (Arith.) a fraction in which the numerator is less than the denominator. -- Proper nectary (Bot.), a nectary separate from the petals and other parts of the flower. -- Proper noun (Gram.), a name belonging to an individual, by which it is distinguished from others of the same class; -- opposed to Ant: common noun; as, John, Boston, America. -- Proper perianth or involucre (Bot.), that which incloses only a single flower. -- Proper receptacle (Bot.), a receptacle which supports only a single flower or fructification. 
Properly; hence, to a great degree; very; as, proper good. [Colloq & Vulgar] 
A game of chance, in which four sea shells, each called a prop, are used instead of dice. 
The hypothetical radical C3H7, regarded as the essential residue of propane and related compounds. 
The prow or fore part of a ship. [Poetic] "Galleys with vermilion prores." Pope. 
Of or pertaining to prose; prosaic. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 
A hymn with no regular meter, sometimes introduced into the Mass. See Sequence. 
One who makes dissections for anatomical illustration; usually, the assistant of a professional anatomist. 
The act of leaping forth or forward; projection. "Such prosiliency of relief." Coleridge. 
Lit., may it do (you) good; -- a salutation used in well wishing, esp. among Germans, as in drinking healths. 
A syllogism preliminary or logically essential to another syllogism; the conclusion of such a syllogism, which becomes a premise of the following syllogism. 
Somewhat proud. Ash. 
To test, evince, ascertain, or verify, as the correctness of any operation or result; thus, in subtraction, if the difference between two numbers, added to the lesser number, makes a sum equal to the greater, the correctness of the subtraction is proved. 
Carried forward; advanced. [Obs.] "Provect in years." Sir T. Flyot. 
Proved. "Accusations firmly proven in his mind." Thackeray. Of this which was the principal charge, and was generally believed to beproven, he was acquitted. Jowett (Thucyd. ). Not proven (Scots Law), a verdict of a jury that the guilt of the accused is not made out, though not disproved. Mozley & W. 
One who, or that which, proves. 
The fore part of a vessel; the bow; the stem; hence, the vessel itself. Wordsworth. The floating vessel swum Uplifted, and secure with beaked prow rode tilting o'er the waves. Milton. 
See Proa. 
Valiant; brave; gallant; courageous. [Archaic] Tennyson. The prowest knight that ever field did fight. Spenser. 
Benefit; profit; good; advantage. [Obs.] That shall be for your hele and for your prow. Chaucer. 
To rove or wander stealthily, esp. for prey, as a wild beast; hence, to prey; to plunder. 
The act of prowling. [Colloq.] Smart. 
"The ticket or list of candidates at elections, presented to the people for their votes." [Rhode Island] Bartlett. 
The written appointment of a proctor in suits in the ecclesiastical courts. Burrill. 
To act or vote by proxy; to do anything by the agency of another. [R.] 
Prussian leather. [Obs.] Dryden. 
A woman of affected modesty, reserve, or coyness; one who is overscrupulous or sensitive; one who affects extraordinary prudence in conduct and speech. Less modest than the speech of prudes. Swift. 
To dress; to prink; -used humorously or in contempt. Dryden. 
A plum; esp., a dried plum, used in cookery; as, French or Turkish prunes; California prunes. German prune (Bot.), a large dark purple plum, of oval shape, often one-sided. It is much used for preserving, either dried or in sirup. Prune tree. (Bot.) (a) A tree of the genus Prunus (P. domestica), which produces prunes. (b) The West Indian tree, Prunus occidentalis. -- South African prune (Bot.), the edible fruit of a sapindaceous tree (Pappea Capensis). 
Any one of several species of beetles whose larvæ gnaw the branches of trees so as to cause them to fall, especially the American oak pruner (Asemum moestum), whose larva eats the pith of oak branches, and when mature gnaws a circular furrow on the inside nearly to the bark. When the branches fall each contains a pupa. 
A genus of trees with perigynous rosaceous flowers, and a single two-ovuled carpel which usually becomes a drupe in ripening. 
A lever; also, leverage. [Local, U. S. & Eng.] Pry pole, the pole which forms the prop of a hoisting gin, and stands facing the windlass. 
To raise or move, or attempt to raise or move, with a pry or lever; to prize. [Local, U. S. & Eng.] 
To peep narrowly; to gaze; to inspect closely; to attempt to discover something by a scrutinizing curiosity; -- often implying reproach. " To pry upon the stars." Chaucer. Watch thou and wake when others be asleep, To pry into the secrets of the state. Shak. 
Curious inspection; impertinent peeping. 
See Prian. 
Inspecting closely or impertinently. 
To extol in psalms; to sing; as, psalming his praises. Sylvester. 
Pish! pooch! -- an exclamation used as an expression of contempt, disdain, dislike, etc. [Written also psha.] 
To express disgust or contemptuous disapprobation, as by the exclamation " Pshaw!" The goodman used regularly to frown and pshaw wherever this topic was touched upon. Sir W. Scott. 
An internal muscle arising from the lumbar vertebræ and inserted into the femur. In man there are usually two on each side, and the larger one, or great psoas, forms a part of the iliopsoas. 
A cutaneous disease; especially, the itch. 
Of or pertaining to psora. 
A lovely maiden, daughter of a king and mistress of Eros, or Cupid. She is regarded as the personification of the soul. 
Any leaping plant louse of the genus Psylla, or family Psyllidæ. 
The region of the skull, in the temporal fossa back of the orbit, where the great wing of the sphenoid, the temporal, the parietal, and the frontal hones approach each other. 
An aqueous medicine, containing little, if any, medicinal agent; a tea or tisane. 
Drooping of the upper eyelid, produced by paralysis of its levator muscle. 
The way in which a leaf is sometimes folded in the bud. 
Puffed out, pursy; pudgy; fat. [Obs.] Drant. 
The down of plants; a downy or villous substance which grows on plants; pubescence. 
Of or pertaining to the pubes; in the region of the pubes; as, the pubic bone; the pubic region, or the lower part of the hypogastric region. See Pubes. (b) Of or pertaining to the pubis. 
The ventral and anterior of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis; sharebone; pubic bone. 
A farmer of the taxes and public revenues; hence, a collector of toll or tribute. The inferior officers of this class were often oppressive in their exactions, and were regarded with great detestation. As Jesus at meat . . . many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples. Matt. 1x. 10. How like a fawning publican he looks! Shak. 
Of a dark brown or brownish purple color. 
See Pucelle. [Obs.] 
A celebrated fairy, "the merry wanderer of the night;" -- called also Robin Goodfellow, Friar Rush, Pug, etc. Shak. He meeteth Puck, whom most men call Hobgoblin, and on him doth fall. Drayton. 
Good of its kind; -- variously used as implying substantial, real, fixed, sure, etc., and specif., of buildings, made of brick and mortar. [India] 
To gather into small folds or wrinkles; to contract into ridges and furrows; to corrugate; -- often with up; as, to pucker up the mouth. "His skin [was] puckered up in wrinkles." Spectator. 
One who, or that which, puckers. 
See Koklass. 
Same as Pood. 
The hand; the first. [Colloq.] Lamb. 
To make a tumult or bustle; to splash; to make a pother or fuss; to potter; to meddle. Puddering in the designs or doings of others. Barrow. Others pudder into their food with their broad nebs. Holland. 
To perplex; to embarrass; to confuse; to bother; as, to pudder a man. Locke. 
A pother; a tumult; a confused noise; turmoil; bustle. "All in a pudder." Milton. 
To make a dirty stir. [Obs.] R. Junius. 
Consisting of, or resembling, puddles; muddy; foul. "Thick puddly water." Carew. 
Short and fat or sturdy; dumpy; podgy; as, a short, pudgy little man; a pudgy little hand. Thackeray. 
Of or pertaining to the external organs of generation. 
A very small deer (Pudua humilis), native of the Chilian Andes. It has simple spikelike antlers, only two or three inches long. 
To make a low whistling sound; to chirp, as birds. Halliwell. 
A communistic building erected by certain Indian tribes of Arizona and New Mexico. It is often of large size and several stories high, and is usually built either of stone or adobe. The term is also applied to any Indian village in the same region. Pueblo Indians (Ethnol.), any tribe or community of Indians living in pueblos. The principal Pueblo tribes are the Moqui, the Zuñi, the Keran, and the Tewan. 
The dung of dogs, used as an alkaline steep in tanning. Simmonds. 
A hog. Puerco beds (Geol.), a name given to certain strata belonging to the earliest Eocene. They are developed in Northwestern New Mexico, along the Rio Puerco, and are characterized by their mammalian remains. 
The pewit. 
Puffed up; vain. [R.] Fanshawe. 
A kier. 
An arctic sea bird Fratercula arctica) allied to the auks, and having a short, thick, swollen beak, whence the name; -- called also bottle nose, cockandy, coulterneb, marrot, mormon, pope, and sea parrot. 
Chaff; the refuse of grain. [Obs.] Holland. 
To pucker. [Obs.] 
Pshaw! pish! -- a word used in contempt or disdain. 
As much as is taken up between the thumb and two first fingers. [Obs.] Bacon. 
The same as Pugh. 
Younger or inferior in rank; junior; associate; as, a chief justice and three puisne justices of the Court of Common Pleas; the puisne barons of the Court of Exchequer. Blackstone. 
One who is younger, or of inferior rank; a junior; esp., a judge of inferior rank. It were not a work for puisnes and novices. Bp. Hall. 
Puisne; younger; inferior; petty; unskilled. [R.] A puisny tilter, that spurs his horse but on one side. Shak. 
A well; a small stream; a fountain; a spring. [Obs.] The puits flowing from the fountain of life. Jer. Taylor. 
To eject the contests of the stomach; to vomit; to spew. The infant Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms. Shak. 
To eject from the stomach; to vomit up. 
A medicine that causes vomiting; an emetic; a vomit. 
Of a color supposed to be between black and russet. Shak. 
Same as Pucka. [India] 
The East Indian leguminous tree Butea frondosa. See Gum Butea, under Gum. [Written also pales and palasa.] 
One who pules; one who whines or complains; a weak person. 
A genus of parasitic insects including the fleas. See Flea. 
A cry, as of a chicken,; a whining or whimpering. Leave this faint puling and lament as I do. Shak. 
Whimpering; whining; childish. 
A Laplander's traveling sledge. See Sledge. 
To hold back, and so prevent from winning; as, the favorite was pulled. 
To exert one's self in an act or motion of drawing or hauling; to tug; as, to pull at a rope. To pull apart, to become separated by pulling; as, a rope will pull apart. -- To pull up, to draw the reins; to stop; to halt. To pull through, to come successfully to the end of a difficult undertaking, a dangerous sickness, or the like. 
A kind of stroke by which a leg ball is sent to the off side, or an off ball to the side. The pull is not a legitimate stroke, but bad cricket. R. A. Proctor. 
Plucked; pilled; moulting. " A pulled hen." Chaucer. 
Poultry. [Obs.] 
One who, or that which, pulls. Proud setter up and puller down of kings. Shak. 
A young hen, or female of the domestic fowl. Pullet sperm, the treadle of an egg. [Obs.] Shak. 
A wheel with a broad rim, or grooved rim, for transmitting power from, or imparting power to, the different parts of machinery, or for changing the direction of motion, by means of a belt, cord, rope, or chain. 
To raise or lift by means of a pulley. [R.] Howell. 
A chick; a young bird in the downy stage. 
A moist, slightly cohering mass, consisting of soft, undissolved animal or vegetable matter. Specifically: (a) (Anat.) A tissue or part resembling pulp; especially, the soft, highly vascular and sensitive tissue which fills the central cavity, called the pulp cavity, of teeth. (b) (Bot.) The soft, succulent part of fruit; as, the pulp of a grape. (c) The exterior part of a coffee berry. B. Edwards. (d) The material of which paper is made when ground up and suspended in water. 
A kind of delicate confectionery or cake, perhaps made from the pulp of fruit. [Obs.] Nares. 
Of or pertaining to the pulpit, or preaching; as, a pulpit orator; pulpit eloquence. 
Like pulp; consisting of pulp; soft; fleshy; succulent; as, the pulpy covering of a nut; the pulpy substance of a peach or a cherry. 
An intoxicating Mexican drink. See Agave. 
Leguminous plants, or their seeds, as beans, pease, etc. If all the world Should, in a pet of temperance, feed on pulse. Milton. 
The beating or throbbing of the heart or blood vessels, especially of the arteries. 
To beat, as the arteries; to move in pulses or beats; to pulsate; to throb. Ray. 
To drive by a pulsation; to cause to pulsate. [R.] 
To put. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
A vegetable substance consisting of soft, elastic, yellowish brown chaff, gathered in the Hawaiian Islands from the young fronds of free ferns of the genus Cibotium, chiefly C. Menziesii; -- used for stuffing mattresses, cushions, etc., and as an absorbent. 
A sweet-scented powder; pulvillio. [Written also pulville.] [Obs.] Gay. 
To apply pulvil to. [Obs.] Congreve. 
A large American carnivore (Felis concolor), found from Canada to Patagonia, especially among the mountains. Its color is tawny, or brownish yellow, without spots or stripes. Called also catamount, cougar, American lion, mountain lion, and panther or painter. 
A stint. 
A very light porous volcanic scoria, usually of a gray color, the pores of which are capillary and parallel, giving it a fibrous structure. It is supposed to be produced by the disengagement of watery vapor without liquid or plastic lava. It is much used, esp. in the form of powder, for smoothing and polishing. Called also pumice stone. 
Same as Pommel. 
A low shoe with a thin sole. Swift. 
An hydraulic machine, variously constructed, for raising or transferring fluids, consisting essentially of a moving piece or piston working in a hollow cylinder or other cavity, with valves properly placed for admitting or retaining the fluid as it is drawn or driven through them by the action of the piston. 
To work, or raise water, a pump. 
One who pumps; the instrument or machine used in pumping. Boyle. 
A pompet. Pumpet ball (Print.), a ball for inking types; a pompet. 
Large and rounded. [Obs.] A gentle stream, whose murmuring wave did play Amongst the pumy stones. Spenser. 
To pound. [Obs.] He would pun thee into shivers with his fist. Shak. 
A play on words which have the same sound but different meanings; an expression in which two different applications of a word present an odd or ludicrous idea; a kind of quibble or equivocation. Addison. A better put on this word was made on the Beggar's Opera, which, it was said, made Gay rich, and Rich gay. Walpole. 
To make puns, or a pun; to use a word in a double sense, especially when the contrast of ideas is ludicrous; to play upon words; to quibble. Dryden. 
To persuade or affect by a pun. Addison. 
A cold arid table-land, as in the Andes of Peru. 
A beverage composed of wine or distilled liquor, water (or milk), sugar, and the juice of lemon, with spice or mint; -- specifically named from the kind of spirit used; as rum punch, claret punch, champagne punch, etc. Milk punch, a sort of punch made with spirit, milk, sugar, spice, etc. -- Punch bowl, a large bowl in which punch is made, or from which it is served. -- Roman punch, a punch frozen and served as an ice. 
The buffoon or harlequin of a puppet show. Punch and Judy, a puppet show in which a comical little hunchbacked Punch, with a large nose, engages in altercation with his wife Judy. 
To thrust against; to poke; as, to punch one with the end of a stick or the elbow. 
A thrust or blow. [Colloq.] 
An extension piece applied to the top of a pile; a dolly. 
To perforate or stamp with an instrument by pressure, or a blow; as, to punch a hole; to punch ticket. Punching machine, or Punching press, a machine tool for punching holes in metal or other material; -- called also punch press. 
Short and thick, or fat. 
One who is very exact in observing forms and ceremonies. Milton. 
A learned man; a teacher; esp., a Brahman versed in the Sanskrit language, and in the science, laws, and religion of the Hindoos; in Cashmere, any clerk or native official. [Written also pandit.] [India] 
A short and fat woman; a squab. [Obs.] 
A bedbug. [R or Obs.] 
A kind of plain sleigh drawn by one horse; originally, a rude oblong box on runners. [U.S.] Sledges or pungs, coarsely framed of split saplings, and surmounted with a large crockery crate. Judd. They did not take out the pungs to-day. E. E. Hale. 
A small sloop or shallop, or a large boat with sails. 
See Punese. [Obs. or R.] 
To punish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Deserving of, or liable to, punishment; capable of being punished by law or right; -- said of person or offenses. That time was, when to be a Protestant, to be a Christian, was by law as punishable as to be a traitor. Milton. -- Pun"ish*a*ble*ness, n. 
A machine for fanning a room, usually a movable fanlike frame covered with canvas, and suspended from the ceiling. It is kept in motion by pulling a cord. [Hindostan] [Written also punkah.] Malcom. 
A minute biting fly of the genus Ceratopogon or allied genus of the family Chironomidæ, found in swarms in various densely wooded or mountaneous regions. [U. S.] 
A pumpkin. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A punster. Beau. & Fl. 
A broad, shallow basket, for displaying fruit or flowers. 
To play at basset, baccara, faro. or omber; to gamble. She heard . . . of his punting at gaming tables. Thackeray. 
Act of playing at basset, baccara, faro, etc. 
A flat-bottomed boat with square ends. It is adapted for use in shallow waters. 
To kick (the ball) before it touches the ground, when let fall from the hands. 
The act of punting the ball. 
One who punts; specifically, one who plays against the banker or dealer, as in baccara and faro. Hoyle. 
One who punts a football; also, one who propels a punt. 
A point or hit. Punto diritto Etym: [It.], a direct stroke or hit. -- Punto reverso Etym: [It. riverso reverse], a backhanded stroke. Halliwell. "Ah, the immortal passado! the punto reverso!" Shak. 
See Pontee. 
Imperfectly developed in size or vigor; small and feeble; inferior; petty. A puny subject strikes at thy great glory. Shak. Breezes laugh to scorn our puny speed. Keble. 
A youth; a novice. [R.] Fuller. 
Same as Poy, n., 3. 
To bring forth whelps or young, as the female of the canine species. 
Any insect in that stage of its metamorphosis which usually immediately precedes the adult, or imago, stage. 
Of or pertaining to a pupa, or the condition of a pupa. 
To become a pupa. 
A pupa. 
Cider brandy. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 
The aperture in the iris; the sight, apple, or black of the eye. See the Note under Eye, and Iris. Pin-hole pupil (Med.), the pupil of the eye when so contracted (as it sometimes is in typhus, or opium poisoning) as to resemble a pin hole. Dunglison. 
A boy or a girl under the age of puberty, that is, under fourteen if a male, and under twelve if a female. 
The upright support for the bearing of the spindle in a lathe. Puppet master. Same as Puppetman. -- Puppet play, a puppet show. -- Puppet player, one who manages the motions of puppets. -- Puppet show, a mock drama performed by puppets moved by wires. -- Puppet valve, a valve in the form of a circular disk, which covers a hole in its seat, and opens by moving bodily away from the seat while remaining parallel with it, -- used in steam engines, pumps, safety valves, etc. Its edge is often beveled, and fits in a conical recess in the seat when the valve is closed. See the valves shown in Illusts. of Plunger pump, and Safety valve, under Plunger, and Safety. 
The young of a canine animal, esp. of the common dog; a whelp. 
To bring forth whelps; to pup. 
To utter a low, murmuring, continued sound, as a cat does when pleased. [Written also purr.] 
To signify or express by purring. Gray. 
The low, murmuring sound made by a cat to express contentment or pleasure. [Written also purr.] 
One of a class of sacred Hindoo poetical works in the Sanskrit language which treat of the creation, destruction, and renovation of worlds, the genealogy and achievements of gods and heroes, the reigns of the Manus, and the transactions of their descendants. The principal Puranas are eighteen in number, and there are the same number of supplementary books called Upa Puranas. 
A curtain or screen; also, a cotton fabric in blue and white stripes, used for curtains. McElrath. 
Ritually clean; fitted for holy services. Thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before the Lord. Lev. xxiv. 6. 
Purified; refined. [Obs.] "Bread of pured wheat." "Pured gold." Chaucer. 
A dish made by boiling any article of food to a pulp and rubbing it through a sieve; as, a purée of fish, or of potatoes; especially, a soup the thickening of which is so treated. 
The state of being pure (in any sense of the adjective). 
To ornament with a bordure of emines, furs, and the like; also, with gold studs or mountings. 
To operate on as, or by means of, a cathartic medicine, or in a similar manner. 
One who, or that which, purges or cleanses; especially, a cathartic medicine. 
See Euxanthin. 
To grow or become pure or clear. 
A Jewish festival, called also the Feast of Lots, instituted to commemorate the deliverance of the Jews from the machinations of Haman. Esther ix. 26. 
Rigid purity; the quality of being affectedly pure or nice, especially in the choice of language; over-solicitude as to purity. "His political purism." De Quincey. The English language, however, . . . had even already become too thoroughly and essentially a mixed tongue for his doctrine of purism to be admitted to the letter. Craik. 
Of or pertaining to purists or purism. 
The condition of being pure. Specifically: (a) freedom from foreign admixture or deleterious matter; as, the purity of water, of wine, of drugs, of metals. (b) Cleanness; freedom from foulness or dirt. "The purity of a linen vesture." Holyday. (c) Freedom from guilt or the defilement of sin; innocence; chastity; as, purity of heart or of life. (d) Freedom from any sinister or improper motives or views. (e) Freedom from foreign idioms, or from barbarous or improper words or phrases; as, purity of style. 
To decorate with fringe or embroidery. "Nature's cradle more enchased and purled." B. Jonson. 
To rise in circles, ripples, or undulations; to curl; to mantle. thin winding breath which purled up to the sky. Shak. 
Malt liquor, medicated or spiced; formerly, ale or beer in which wormwood or other bitter herbs had been infused, and which was regarded as tonic; at present, hot beer mixed with gin, sugar, and spices. "Drank a glass of purl to recover appetite." Addison. "Drinking hot purl, and smoking pipes." Dickens. 
Any species of large butterflies, usually marked with purple or blue, of the genus Basilarchia (formerly Limenitis) as, the banded purple (B. arthemis). See Illust. under Ursula. 
To make purple; to dye of purple or deep red color; as, hands purpled with blood. When morn Purples the east. Milton. Reclining soft in blissful bowers, Purpled sweet with springing flowers. Fenton. 
Purple. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To murmur as a cat. See Pur. 
The low murmuring sound made by a cat; pur. See Pur. 
The dunlin. [Prov. Eng.] 
A yellow coloring matter. See Euxanthin. 
To steal purses; to rob. [Obs. & R.] I'll purse: . . . I'll bet at bowling alleys. Beau. & Fl. 
A commissioned officer in the navy who had charge of the provisions, clothing, and public moneys on shipboard; -- now called paymaster. 
A purse or purse net. B. Jonson. 
To follow a matter judicially, as a complaining party; to act as a prosecutor. Burrill. 
Fat and short-breathed; fat, short, and thick; swelled with pampering; as, pursy insolence. Shak. Pursy important he sat him down. Sir W. Scot. 
A providing necessaries for the sovereign by buying them at an appraised value in preference to all others, and oven without the owner's consent. This was formerly a royal prerogative, but has long been abolished. Wharton. 
The yellowish white opaque creamy matter produced by the process of suppuration. It consists of innumerable white nucleated cells floating in a clear liquid. 
A piece of armor for the breast; often, an addition to, or reënforcement of. the breastplate; -- called also pesane. 
A pustule; a pimple. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Bacon. 
A simple device, resembling a button in form, so arranged that pushing it closes an electric circuit, as of an electric bell. 
One who, or that which, pushes. 
Very small; little; petty. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Purslane. [Colloq. U. S] 
See Pursy. [Colloq. or Low] 
A pit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Put, contracted from putteth. Chaucer. 
A rustic; a clown; an awkward or uncouth person. Queer country puts extol Queen Bess's reign. Bramston. What droll puts the citizens seem in it all. F. Harrison. 
To convey coal in the mine, as from the working to the tramway. Raymond. Put case, formerly, an elliptical expression for, put or suppose the case to be. Put case that the soul after departure from the body may live. Bp. Hall. -- To put about (Naut.), to turn, or change the course of, as a ship. -- To put away. (a) To renounce; to discard; to expel. (b) To divorce. -- To put back. (a) To push or thrust backwards; hence, to hinder; to delay. (b) To refuse; to deny. Coming from thee, I could not put him back. Shak. (c) To set, as the hands of a clock, to an earlier hour. (d) To restore to the original place; to replace. -- To put by. (a) To turn, set, or thrust, aside. "Smiling put the question by." Tennyson. (b) To lay aside; to keep; to sore up; as, to put by money. -- To put down. (a) To lay down; to deposit; to set down. (b) To lower; to diminish; as, to put down prices. (c) To deprive of position or power; to put a stop to; to suppress; to abolish; to confute; as, to put down rebellion of traitors. Mark, how a plain tale shall put you down. Shak. Sugar hath put down the use of honey. Bacon. (d) To subscribe; as, to put down one's name. -- To put forth. (a) To thrust out; to extend, as the hand; to cause to come or push out; as, a tree puts forth leaves. (b) To make manifest; to develop; also, to bring into action; to exert; as, to put forth strength. (c) To propose, as a question, a riddle, and the like. (d) To publish, as a book. -- To put forward. (a) To advance to a position of prominence responsibility; to promote. (b) To cause to make progress; to aid. (c) To set, as the hands of a clock, to a later hour. -- To put in. (a) To introduce among others; to insert; sometimes, to introduce with difficulty; as, to put in a word while others are discoursing. (b) (Naut.) To conduct into a harbor, as a ship. (c) (Law) To place in due form before a court; to place among the records of a court. Burrill. (d) (Med.) To restore, as a dislocated part, to its place. -- To put off. (a) To lay aside; to discard; as, to put off a robe; to put off mortality. "Put off thy shoes from off thy feet." Ex. iii. 5. (b) To turn aside; to elude; to disappoint; to frustrate; to baffle. I hoped for a demonstration, but Themistius hoped to put me off with an harangue. Boyle. We might put him off with this answer. Bentley. (c) To delay; to defer; to postpone; as, to put off repentance. (d) To get rid of; to dispose of; especially, to pass fraudulently; as, to put off a counterfeit note, or an ingenious theory. (e) To push from land; as, to put off a boat. -- To put on or upon. (a) To invest one's self with, as clothes; to assume. "Mercury . . . put on the shape of a man." L'Estrange. (b) To impute (something) to; to charge upon; as, to put blame on or upon another. (c) To advance; to promote. [Obs.] "This came handsomely to put on the peace." Bacon. (d) To impose; to inflict. "That which thou puttest on me, will I bear." 2 Kings xviii. 14. (e) To apply; as, to put on workmen; to put on steam. (f) To deceive; to trick. "The stork found he was put upon." L'Estrange. (g) To place upon, as a means or condition; as, he put him upon bread and water. "This caution will put them upon considering." Locke. (h) (Law) To rest upon; to submit to; as, a defendant puts himself on or upon the country. Burrill. -- To put out. (a) To eject; as, to put out and intruder. (b) To put forth; to shoot, as a bud, or sprout. (c) To extinguish; as, to put out a candle, light, or fire. (d) To place at interest; to loan; as, to put out funds. (e) To provoke, as by insult; to displease; to vex; as, he was put out by my reply. [Colloq.] (f) To protrude; to stretch forth; as, to put out the hand. (g) To publish; to make public; as, to put out a pamphlet. (h) To confuse; to disconcert; to interrupt; as, to put one out in reading or speaking. (i) (Law) To open; as, to put out lights, that is, to open or cut windows. Burrill. (j) (Med.) To place out of joint; to dislocate; as, to put out the ankle. (k) To cause to cease playing, or to prevent from playing longer in a certain inning, as in base ball. -- To put over. (a) To place (some one) in authority over; as, to put a general over a division of an army. (b) To refer. For the certain knowledge of that knowledge of that truthput you o'er to heaven and to my mother. Shak. (c) To defer; to postpone; as, the court put over the cause to the next term. (d) To transfer (a person or thing) across; as, to put one over the river. -- To put the hand to or unto. (a) To take hold of, as of an instrument of labor; as, to put the hand to the plow; hence, to engage in (any task or affair); as, to put one's hand to the work. (b) To take or seize, as in theft. "He hath not put his hand unto his neighbor's goods." Ex. xxii. 11. -- To put through, to cause to go through all conditions or stages of a progress; hence, to push to completion; to accomplish; as, he put through a measure of legislation; he put through a railroad enterprise. [U.S.] -- To put to. (a) To add; to unite; as, to put one sum to another. (b) To refer to; to expose; as, to put the safety of the state to hazard. "That dares not put it to the touch." Montrose. (c) To attach (something) to; to harness beasts to. Dickens. -- To put to a stand, to stop; to arrest by obstacles or difficulties. -- To put to bed. (a) To undress and place in bed, as a child. (b) To deliver in, or to make ready for, childbirth. -- To put to death, to kill. -- To put together, to attach; to aggregate; to unite in one. -- To put this and that (or two and two) together, to draw an inference; to form a correct conclusion. -- To put to it, to distress; to press hard; to perplex; to give difficulty to. "O gentle lady, do not put me to 't." Shak. -- To put to rights, to arrange in proper order; to settle or compose rightly. -- To put to the sword, to kill with the sword; to slay. -- To put to trial, or on trial, to bring to a test; to try. -- To put trust in, to confide in; to repose confidence in. -- To put up. (a) To pass unavenged; to overlook; not to punish or resent; to put up with; as, to put up indignities. [Obs.] "Such national injuries are not to be put up." Addison. (b) To send forth or upward; as, to put up goods for sale. (d) To start from a cover, as game. "She has been frightened; she has been put up." C. Kingsley. (e) To hoard. "Himself never put up any of the rent." Spelman. (f) To lay side or preserve; to pack away; to store; to pickle; as, to put up pork, beef, or fish. (g) To place out of sight, or away; to put in its proper place; as, put up that letter. Shak. (h) To incite; to instigate; -- followed by to; as, he put the lad up to mischief. (i) To raise; to erect; to build; as, to put up a tent, or a house. (j) To lodge; to entertain; as, to put up travelers. -- To put up a job, to arrange a plot. [Slang] 
A prostitute. [Obs.] 
Prostitution or fornication on the part of a woman. 
An inclosure surrounding a well to prevent persons from falling into it; a well curb. Weale. 
Same as Patela. 
Putage. [Obs.] 
Rotten; fetid; stinking; base; worthless. Jer. Taylor. "Thy putid muse." Dr. H. More. 
One of the short pieces of timber on which the planks forming the floor of a scaffold are laid, -- one end resting on the ledger of the scaffold, and the other in a hole left in the wall temporarily for the purpose. Oxf. Gloss. 
A keeper of a brothel; a procurer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The quality of being putrid; putrefaction; rottenness. 
Putrid. [Obs.] Marston. 
Putage. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A stroke made on the putting green to play the ball into a hole. 
To make a putt. 
Same as Putty, a kind of gaiter. 
To act inefficiently or idly; to trifle; to potter. 
A kind of thick paste or cement compounded of whiting, or soft carbonate of lime, and linseed oil, when applied beaten or kneaded to the consistence of dough, -- used in fastening glass in sashes, stopping crevices, and for similar purposes. Putty powder, an oxide of tin, or of tin and lead in various proportions, much used in polishing glass, metal, precious stones, etc. 
To cement, or stop, with putty. 
See Poy. 
A harlot; a drab; a hussy. [Obs.] Shak. 
The domain of puzzles; puzzles, collectively. C. Kingsley. 
See 2d Pie (b). 
See PyÆmia. 
A magpie; a piet. [Prov. Eng.] Here cometh the worthy prelate as pert as a pyet. Sir W. Scott. 
Situated in the region of the rump, or posterior end of the backbone; -- applied especially to the posterior median plates in the carapace of chelonians. 
One of a fabulous race of dwarfs who waged war with the cranes, and were destroyed. 
An albuminoid constituent of pus, related to mucin, possibly a mixture of substances rather than a single body. 
In India and Persia, thin loose trowsers or drawers; in Europe and America, drawers worn at night, or a kind of nightdress with legs. [Written also paijama.] 
An ancient English fishing boat. 
The passage between the iter and optocoele in the brain. B. G. Wilder. 
Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pylorus; as, the pyloric end of the stomach. 
See Pine. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A pennant. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to pus; of the nature of, or like, pus. Pyoid corpuscles (Med.), cells of a size larger than pus corpuscles, containing two or more of the latter. 
The magpie. See Piet. 
Of or pertaining to a pyre. [R.] 
A funeral pile; a combustible heap on which the dead are burned; hence, any pile to be burnt. For nine long nights, through all the dusky air, The pyres thick flaming shot a dismal glare. Pope. 
A nutlet resembling a seed, or the kernel of a drupe. Gray. 
One of the less volatile hydrocarbons of coal tar, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C16H10. 
Same as Pyrena. 
A variety of pyroxene; -- called also fassaite. 
A common mineral of a pale brass-yellow color and brilliant metallic luster, crystallizing in the isometric system; iron pyrites; iron disulphide. Hence sable coal his massy couch extends, And stars of gold the sparkling pyrite blends. E. Darwin. 
Abbreviation of pyrogallic acid. [Colloq.] 
An unsaturated cyclic compound, C5H4O2, of which two varieties are known, a and g. g-pyrone is the parent substance of several natural yellow dyestuffs. 
A variety of garnet, of a poppy or blood-red color, frequently with a tinge of orange. It is used as a gem. See the Note under Garnet. 
A nitrogenous base found in coal tar, bone oil, and other distillates of organic substances, and also produced synthetically as a colorless liquid, C4H5N, having on odor like that of chloroform. It is the nucleus and origin of a large number of derivatives. So called because it colors a splinter of wood moistened with hydrochloric acid a deep red. 
A genus of large marine gastropods. having a pear-shaped shell. It includes the fig-shells. See Illust. in Appendix. 
A genus of rosaceous trees and shrubs having pomes for fruit. It includes the apple, crab apple, pear, chokeberry, sorb, and mountain ash. 
Any species of very large snakes of the genus Python, and allied genera, of the family Pythonidæ. They are nearly allied to the boas. Called also rock snake. 
A morbid condition in which pus is discharged in the urine. 
The box, case, vase, or tabernacle, in which the host is reserved. 
To test as to weight and fineness, as the coins deposited in the pyx. [Eng.] Mushet. 
Same as Pixy. 
A pyxidium. 
In so far as; in the capacity or character of; as. It is with Shelley's biographers qua biographers that we have to deal. London Spectator. 
An unfledged bird; hence, something immature or unfinished. Ford. 
See Quob, v. i. 
The quagga. 
A boastful pretender to medical skill; an empiric; an ignorant practitioner. 
Pertaining to or characterized by, boasting and pretension; used by quacks; pretending to cure diseases; as, a quack medicine; a quack doctor. 
A quadrat. 
A quadrangle; hence, a prison. [Cant or Slang] 
That may be sqyared, or reduced to an equivalent square; -- said of a surface when the area limited by a curve can be exactly found, and expressed in a finite number of algebraic terms. 
Inquire; question; see; -- used to signify doubt or to suggest investigation. 
To drink with relish; to drink copiously of; to swallow in large draughts. "Quaffed off the muscadel." Shak. They eat, they drink, and in communion sweet Quaff immortality and joy. Milton. 
To drink largely or luxuriously. Twelve days the gods their solemn revels keep, And quaff with blameless Ethiops in the deep. Dryden. 
A quagmire. [R.] "Crooked or straight, through quags or thorny dells." Cowper. 
A South African wild ass (Equus, or Hippotigris, quagga). The upper parts are reddish brown, becoming paler behind and behind and beneath, with dark stripes on the face, neck, and fore part of the body. 
Of the nature of a quagmire; yielding or trembling under the foot, as soft, wet earth; spongy; boggy. "O'er the watery strath, or quaggy moss." Collins. 
To cause to fail in spirit or power; to quell; to crush; to subdue. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To curdle; to coagulate, as milk. [Obs.] Holland. 
Any gallinaceous bird belonging to Coturnix and several allied genera of the Old World, especially the common European quail (C. communis), the rain quail (C. Coromandelica) of India, the stubble quail (C. pectoralis), and the Australian swamp quail (Synoicus australis). 
The upland plover. [Canadian] 
In a quaint manner. Shak. 
A quire; a book. [Obs.] " The king's quhair." James I. (of Scotland). 
To cause to quake. [Obs.] Shak. 
A tremulous agitation; a quick vibratory movement; a shudder; a quivering. 
A woman who is a member of the Society of Friends. 
Shaky, or tremulous; quaking. 
Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea or sickly languor; inclined to vomit. Shak. -- Qualm"ish*ly, adv. -- Qualm"ish*ness, n. 
The old squaw. [Local, U. S.] 
A punting pole with a broad flange near the end to prevent it from sinking into the mud; a setting pole. 
To quaver. [Obs.] See Quob. 
A quarry. [Prov. Eng.] B. Jonson. 
A medusa, or jellyfish. [R.] The jellied quarl that flings At once a thousand streaming stings. J. R. Drake. 
Same as 1st Quarrel. [Obs.] Fairfax. 
Quadrate; square. [Obs.] 
To secure prey; to prey, as a vulture or harpy. L'Estrange. 
A place, cavern, or pit where stone is taken from the rock or ledge, or dug from the earth, for building or other purposes; a stone pit. See 5th Mine (a). 
To dig or take from a quarry; as, to quarry marble. 
The fourth part; a quarter; hence, a region of the earth. [Obs.] Camber did possess the western quart. Spenser. 
In cards, four successive cards of the same suit. Cf. Tierce, 4. Hoyle. 
Same as 2d Carte. 
Having four leaves to the sheet; of the form or size of a quarto. 
Originally, a book of the size of the fourth of sheet of printing paper; a size leaves; in present usage, a book of a square or nearly square form, and usually of large size. 
A form of silica, or silicon dioxide (SiO2), occurring in hexagonal crystals, which are commonly colorless and transparent, but sometimes also yellow, brown, purple, green, and of other colors; also in cryptocrystalline massive forms varying in color and degree of transparency, being sometimes opaque. 
A kind of beer. Same as Quass. 
Same as Squash. 
To abate, annul, overthrow, or make void; as, to quash an indictment. Blackstone. 
To be shaken, or dashed about, with noise. 
As if; as though; as it were; in a manner sense or degree; having some resemblance to; qualified; -- used as an adjective, or a prefix with a noun or an adjective; as, a quasi contract, an implied contract, an obligation which has arisen from some act, as if from a contract; a quasi corporation, a body that has some, but not all, of the peculiar attributes of a corporation; a quasi argument, that which resembles, or is used as, an argument; quasi historical, apparently historical, seeming to be historical. 
A thin, sour beer, made by pouring warm water on rye or barley meal and letting it ferment, -- much used by the Russians. [written also quas.] 
To satiate; to satisfy. [Prov. Eng.] 
The coaita. 
Squat; flat. [Obs.] Shak. 
A card, die. or domino, having four spots, or pips 
See Quaver. [Obs.] 
To quaver. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
To utter with quavers. We shall hear her quavering them . . . to some sprightly airs of the opera. Addison. 
An eighth note. See Eighth. 
A mole, bank, or wharf, formed toward the sea, or at the side of a harbor, river, or other navigable water, for convenience in loading and unloading vessels. [Written also key.] 
To furnish with quays. 
p. p. of Quail. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A half farthing. [Obs.] 
A thick, bushy plot; a thicket. [Obs.] Chapman. 
To stir; to move. See Quick, v. i. [Obs.] 
In a queasy manner. 
The middle of the three groups into which the rocks of the Canadian period have been divided in the American Lower Silurian system. See the Chart of Geology. 
The most powerful, and except the king the most important, piece in a set of chessmen. 
To act the part of a queen. Shak. 
To make a queen (or other piece, at the player's discretion) of by moving it to the eighth row; as, to queen a pawn. 
Counterfeit money. [Slang] To shove the queer, to put counterfeit money in circulation. [Slang] 
The European ringdove (Columba palumbus); the cushat. [Written also quist, queeze, quice, queece.] See Ringdove. 
A drinking vessel. See Quaich. 
See Quaint. [Obs.] 
imp. & p. p. of Quench. Chaucer. 
Murder. [Obs.] Shak. 
To please. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To become extinguished; to go out; to become calm or cool. [R.] Dost thou think in time She will not quench! Shak. 
To twirl; to turn or wind round; to coil; as, to querl a cord, thread, or rope. [Local, U.S.] 
A coil; a twirl; as, the qwerl of hair on the fore leg of a blooded horse. [Local, U. S.] 
A mill for grinding grain, the upper stone of which was turned by hand; -- used before the invention of windmills and watermills. Shak. They made him at the querne grind. Chaucer. 
The inner or body garments taken together. See Cuerpo. Dryden. 
A groom; an equerry. [Obs.] 
The long-tailed, or resplendent, trogon (Pharomachus mocinno, formerly Trogon resplendens), native of Southern Mexico and Central America. Called alsoquetzal, and golden trogon. 
To search for; to examine. [R.] Sir T. Herbert. 
To go on a quest; to make a search; to go in pursuit; to beg. [R.] If his questing had been unsuccessful, he appeased the rage of hunger with some scraps of broken meat. Macaulay. 
The common guillemot. [Prov. Eng.] 
To fasten, as hair, in a queue. 
A heifer. [Scot.] 
A quip; a gibe. 
A small South American opossum (Didelphys quica), native of Guiana and Brazil. It feeds upon insects, small birds, and fruit. 
See Queest. 
To stir. [Obs.] He could not move nor quich at all. Spenser. 
In a quick manner; quickly; promptly; rapidly; with haste; speedily; without delay; as, run quick; get back quick. If we consider how very quick the actions of the mind are performed. Locke. 
Quitch grass. Tennyson. 
To revive; to quicken; to be or become alive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A portion suitable to be chewed; a cud; as, a quid of tobacco. 
To drop from the mouth, as food when partially chewed; -- said of horses. Youatt. 
Somebody; one unknown. Spenser. 
To become still, silent, or calm; -- often with down; as, be soon quieted down. 
The bark of a rosaceous tree (Quillaja Saponaria), native of Chili. The bark is finely laminated, and very heavy with alkaline substances, and is used commonly by the Chilians instead of soap. Also called soap bark. 
Anything that is quilted; esp., a quilted bed cover, or a skirt worn by women; any cover or garment made by putting wool, cotton, etc., between two cloths and stitching them together; also, any outer bed cover. The beds were covered with magnificent quilts. Arbuthnot. 
One who, or that which, quilts. 
A European scallop (Pecten opercularis), used as food. [Prov. Eng.] 
a quince tree or shrub. Japan quince (Bot.), an Eastern Asiatic shrub (Cydonia, formerly Pyrus, Japonica) and its very fragrant but inedible fruit. The shrub has very showy flowers, usually red, but sometimes pink or white, and is much grown for ornament. -- Quince curculio (Zoöl.), a small gray and yellow curculio (Conotrachelus cratægi) whose larva lives in quinces. -- Quince tree (Bot.), the small tree (Cydonia vulgaris) which produces the quince. 
To stir; to wince. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Quinine. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or connected with, quinine and related compounds; specifically, designating a nonnitrogenous acid obtained from cinchona bark, coffee, beans, etc., as a white crystalline substance. [Written also chinic, kinic.] 
The seeds of a kind of goosewort (Chenopodium Quinoa), used in Chili and Peru for making porridge or cakes; also, food thus made. 
An inflammation of the throat, or parts adjacent, especially of the fauces or tonsils, attended by considerable swelling, painful and impeded deglutition, and accompanied by inflammatory fever. It sometimes creates danger of suffocation; -- called also squinancy, and squinzey. 
The interval of a fifth. 
A game at cards in which the object is to make fifteen points. 
A smart, sarcastic turn or jest; a taunt; a severe retort; a gibe. Quips, and cranks, and wanton wiles. Milton. He was full of joke and jest, But all his merry quips are o'er. Tennyson. 
To taunt; to treat with quips. The more he laughs, and does her closely quip. Spenser. 
To scoff; to use taunts. Sir H. Sidney. 
Same as Quipu. 
A contrivance employed by the ancient Peruvians, Mexicans, etc., as a substitute for writing and figures, consisting of a main cord, from which hung at certain distances smaller cords of various colors, each having a special meaning, as silver, gold, corn, soldiers. etc. Single, double, and triple knots were tied in the smaller cords, representing definite numbers. It was chiefly used for arithmetical purposes, and to register important facts and events. [Written also quipo.] Tylor. The mysterious science of the quipus . . . supplied the Peruvians with the means of communicating their ideas to one another, and of transmitting them to future generations. Prescott. 
See Choir. [Obs.] Spenser. A quire of such enticing birds. Shak. 
To sing in concert. [R.] Shak. 
A collection of twenty-four sheets of paper of the same size and quality, unfolded or having a single fold; one twentieth of a ream. 
A piece of ground taken out of any regular ground plot or floor, so as to make a court, yard, etc.; -- sometimes written quink. Gwilt. 
Full of quirks; tricky; as, a quirky lawyer. 
See Querl. 
A rawhide whip plaited with two thongs of buffalo hide T. Roosevelt. 
See Cuish. 
Any one of numerous species of small passerine birds native of tropical America. See Banana quit, under Banana, and Guitguit. 
Released from obligation, charge, penalty, etc.; free; clear; absolved; acquitted. Chaucer. The owner of the ox shall be quit. Ex. xxi. 28. 
To away; to depart; to stop doing a thing; to cease. 
Same as Quitch grass. 
See Quit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Quite. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See the Note under Quit, a. 
Nimble; active. [Obs.] " A little quiver fellow." Shak. 
To shake or move with slight and tremulous motion; to tremble; to quake; to shudder; to shiver. The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind. Shak. And left the limbs still quivering on the ground. Addison. 
The act or state of quivering; a tremor. 
A case or sheath for arrows to be carried on the person. Reside him hung his bow And quiver, with three-bolted thunder stored. Milton. 
To conduct a quiz. See Quiz, n., 4. [U.S.] 
To throb; to quiver. [Local & Vulgar] 
A quadrangle or court, as of a prison; hence, a prison. [Slang] "Flogged or whipped in quod." T. Hughes. 
Quoth; said. See Quoth. [Obs.] "Let be," quod he, "it shall not be." Chaucer. 
See Coif. Shak. 
See Coil. [Obs.] 
Originally, a solid exterior angle, as of a building; now, commonly, one of the selected pieces of material by which the corner is marked. 
A game played with quoits. Shak. 
To throw quoits; to play at quoits. To quoit, to run, and steeds and chariots drive. Dryden. 
To throw; to pitch. [Obs. or R.] Shak. 
imp. of Quake. Chaucer. 
A marsupial of Australia (Dasyurus macrurus), about the size of a cat. 
imp. of Quake. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See Quob. 
Such a number of the officers or members of any body as is competent by law or constitution to transact business; as, a quorum of the House of Representatives; a constitutional quorum was not present. 
A proportional part or share; the share or proportion assigned to each in a division. "Quota of troops and money." Motley. 
To name the current price of. 
A note upon an author. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 
One who quotes the words of another. 
Said; spoke; uttered; -- used only in the first and third persons in the past tenses, and always followed by its nominative, the word or words said being the object; as, quoth I. quoth he. "Let me not live, quoth he." Shak. 
Indeed; forsooth. To affront the blessed hillside drabs and thieves With mended morals, quotha, -- fine new lives ! Mrs. Browning. 
Part or proportion; quota. [R.] "A very small quotum." Max Müller. 
See Koran. 
The electric catfish. [Written also raasch.] 
A rod or stick used by masons in mixing hair with mortar. 
A polishing material made of potter's clay that has failed in baking. 
To recover to the fist, as a hawk. [Obs.] 
A kind of ruff for the neck; a turned-down collar; a rebato. [Obs.] Shak. 
Master; lord; teacher; -- a Jewish title of respect or honor for a teacher or doctor of the law. "The gravest rabbies."  Milton. 
Same as Rabbi. 
An iron bar, with the end bent, used in stirring or skimming molten iron in the process of puddling. 
Of or pertaining to a rabble; like, or suited to, a rabble; disorderly; vulgar. [R.] Dryden. 
To speak in a confused manner. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To stir or skim with a rabble, as molten iron. 
A tumultuous crowd of low people; a rabble. "Rude rablement." Spenser. 
Rabidness; furiousness. 
Same as Hydrophobia (b); canine madness. 
A rubber of hard wood used in smoothing marble to be polished. Knight. 
A term of reproach used by the Jews of our Savior's time, meaning "worthless." 
A root. "A race or two of ginger." Shak. Race ginger, ginger in the root, or not pulverized. 
A variety of such fixed character that it may be propagated by seed. 
A channel or guide along which a shuttle is driven back and forth, as in a loom, sewing machine, etc. Race cloth, a cloth worn by horses in racing, having pockets to hold the weights prescribed. -- Race course. (a) The path, generally circular or elliptical, over which a race is run. (b) Same as Race way, below. -- Race cup, a cup given as a prize to the victor in a race. -- Race glass, a kind of field glass. -- Race horse. (a) A horse that runs in competition; specifically, a horse bred or kept for running races. (b) A breed of horses remarkable for swiftness in running. (c) (Zoöl.) The steamer duck. (d) (Zoöl.) A mantis. -- Race knife, a cutting tool with a blade that is hooked at the point, for marking outlines, on boards or metals, as by a pattern, -- used in shipbuilding. -- Race saddle, a light saddle used in racing. -- Race track. Same as Race course (a), above. -- Race way, the canal for the current that drives a water wheel. 
To run too fast at times, as a marine engine or screw, when the screw is lifted out of water by the action of a heavy sea. 
A small sloop-rigged racing yacht carrying about six hundred square feet of sail, distinguished from a knockabout by having a short bowsprit. 
A flower cluster with an elongated axis and many one-flowered lateral pedicels, as in the currant and chokecherry. Compound raceme, one having the lower pedicels developed into secondary racemes. 
The common American black snake. 
The spine; the vertebral column. 
Of or pertaining to a race or family of men; as, the racial complexion. 
In a racy manner. 
a. & n. from Race, v. t. & i. Racing crab (Zoöl.), an ocypodian. 
Same as Arrack. 
The neck and spine of a fore quarter of veal or mutton. 
A wreck; destruction. [Obs., except in a few phrases.] Rack and ruin, destruction; utter ruin. [Colloq.] -- To go to rack, to perish; to be destroyed. [Colloq.] "All goes to rack." Pepys. 
Thin, flying, broken clouds, or any portion of floating vapor in the sky. Shak. The winds in the upper region, which move the clouds above, which we call the rack, . . . pass without noise. Bacon. And the night rack came rolling up. C. Kingsley. 
To fly, as vapor or broken clouds. 
To amble fast, causing a rocking or swaying motion of the body; to pace; -- said of a horse. Fuller. 
A fast amble. 
To draw off from the lees or sediment, as wine. It is in common practice to draw wine or beer from the lees (which we call racking), whereby it will clarify much the sooner. Bacon. Rack vintage, wine cleansed and drawn from the lees. Cowell. 
A bar with teeth on its face, or edge, to work with those of a wheel, pinion, or worm, which is to drive it or be driven by it. 
To wash on a rack, as metals or ore. 
To strike with, or as with, a racket. Poor man [is] racketed from one temptation to another. Hewyt. 
One who makes, or engages in, a racket. 
See Rakel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. & p. p. of Read, Rede. Spenser. 
imp. of Read, Rede. Chaucer. 
To interweave or twist together. Raddling or working it up like basket work. De Foe. 
A red pigment used in marking sheep, and in some mechanical processes; ruddle. "A ruddle of rouge." Thackeray. 
To mark or paint with, or as with, raddle. "Whitened and raddled old women." Thackeray. 
A raid. [Scot.] 
A float; a raft. Three vessels under sail, and one at anchor, above Split Rock, and behind it the radeau Thunderer. W. Irving. 
Of or pertaining to a radius or ray; consisting of, or like, radii or rays; radiated; as, (Bot.) radial projections; (Zoöl.) radial vessels or canals; (Anat.) the radial artery. Radial symmetry. (Biol.) See under Symmetry. 
An arc of a circle which is equal to the radius, or the angle measured by such an arc. 
pl. of Radius. 
The pungent fleshy root of a well-known cruciferous plant (Paphanus sativus); also, the whole plant. Radish fly (Zoöl.), a small two-winged fly (Anthomyia raphani) whose larvæ burrow in radishes. It resembles the onion fly. -- Rat-tailed radish (Bot.), an herb (Raphanus caudatus) having a long, slender pod, which is sometimes eaten. -- Wild radish (Bot.), the jointed charlock. 
An intensely radioactive metallic element found (combined) in minute quantities in pitchblende, and various other uranium minerals. Symbol, Ra; atomic weight, 226.4. Radium was discovered by M. and Mme. Curie, of Paris, who in 1902 separated compounds of it by a tedious process from pitchblende. Its compounds color flames carmine and give a characteristic spectrum. It resembles barium chemically. Radium preparations are remarkable for maintaining themselves at a higher temperature than their surroundings, and for their radiations, which are of three kinds: alpha rays, beta rays, and gamma rays (see these terms). By reason of these rays they ionize gases, affect photographic plates, cause sores on the skin, and produce many other striking effects. Their degree of activity depends on the proportion of radium present, but not on its state of chemical combination or on external conditions.The radioactivity of radium is therefore an atomic property, and is explained as result from a disintegration of the atom. This breaking up occurs in at least seven stages; the successive main products have been studied and are called radium emanation or exradio, radium A, radium B, radium C, etc. (The emanation is a heavy gas, the later products are solids.) These products are regarded as unstable elements, each with an atomic weight a little lower than its predecessor. It is possible that lead is the stable end product. At the same time the light gas helium is formed; it probably consists of the expelled alpha particles. The heat effect mentioned above is ascribed to the impacts of these particles. Radium, in turn, is believed to be formed indirectly by an immeasurably slow disintegration of uranium. 
A right line drawn or extending from the center of a circle to the periphery; the semidiameter of a circle or sphere. 
A primitive, from which spring other words; a radical; a root; an etymon. 
The chitinous ribbon bearing the teeth of mollusks; -- called also lingual ribbon, and tongue. See Odontophore. 
To sweep, snatch, draw, or huddle together; to take by a promiscuous sweep. [Obs.] Causes and effects which I thus raff up together. Carew. 
Raphaelesque. 
A fibrous material used for tying plants, said to come from the leaves of a palm tree of the genus Raphia. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 
To engage in a raffle; as, to raffle for a watch. 
To dispose of by means of a raffle; -- often followed by off; as, to raffle off a horse. 
imp. & p. p. of Reave. Spenser. 
A large collection of people or things taken indiscriminately. [Slang, U. S.] "A whole raft of folks." W. D. Howells. Raft bridge. (a) A bridge whose points of support are rafts. (b) A bridge that consists of floating timbers fastened together. -- Raft duck. Etym: [The name alludes to its swimming in dense flocks.] (Zoöl.) (a) The bluebill, or greater scaup duck; -- called also flock duck. See Scaup. (b) The redhead. -- Raft port (Naut.), a large, square port in a vessel's side for loading or unloading timber or other bulky articles; a timber or lumber port. 
To transport on a raft, or in the form of a raft; to make into a raft; as, to raft timber. 
imp. of Reave. Chaucer. 
A raftsman. 
Originally, any rough and somewhat heavy piece of timber. Now, commonly, one of the timbers of a roof which are put on sloping, according to the inclination of the roof. See Illust. of Queen-post. [Courtesy] oft is sooner found in lowly sheds, With smoky rafters, than in tapestry halls. Milton. 
To plow so as to turn the grass side of each furrow upon an unplowed ridge; to ridge. [Eng.] 
Damp; musty. [Prov. Eng.] 
To scold or rail at; to rate; to tease; to torment; to banter. [Prov. Eng.] Pegge. 
Hence, mean or tattered attire; worn-out dress. And virtue, though in rags, will keep me warm. Dryden. 
To become tattered. [Obs.] 
An idle, ragged person. Nares. Grose. 
To enrage. [Obs.] Shak. 
Wantonness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Ragged; rough. [Obs.] "A stony and raggie hill." Holland. 
a. & n. from Rage, v. i. -- Ra"*ging*ly, adv. 
A loose overcoat with large sleeves; -- named from Lord Raglan, an English general. 
A man who collects, or deals in, rags. 
A document having many names or numerous seals, as a papal bull. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
A dish made of pieces of meat, stewed, and highly seasoned; as, a ragout of mutton. 
A genus of rays which includes the skates. See Skate. 
The order of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sawfishes, skates, and rays; -- called also Rajæ, and Rajii. 
To make a raid upon or into; as, two regiments raided the border counties. 
One who engages in a raid. [U.S.] 
An outer cloak or covering; a neckerchief for women. Fairholt. 
To flow forth; to roll out; to course. [Obs.] Streams of tears from her fair eyes forth railing. Spenser. 
A horizontal piece in a frame or paneling. See Illust. of Style. 
Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds of the family Rallidæ, especially those of the genus Rallus, and of closely allied genera. They are prized as game birds. 
To use insolent and reproachful language; to utter reproaches; to scoff; followed by at or against, formerly by on. Shak. And rail at arts he did not understand. Dryden. Lesbia forever on me rails. Swift. 
One who rails; one who scoffs, insults, censures, or reproaches with opprobrious language. 
Reign. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Water falling in drops from the clouds; the descent of water from the clouds in drops. Rain is water by the heat of the sun divided into very small parts ascending in the air, till, encountering the cold, it be condensed into clouds, and descends in drops. Ray. Fair days have oft contracted wind and rain. Milton. 
A bow or arch exhibiting, in concentric bands, the several colors of the spectrum, and formed in the part of the hemisphere opposite to the sun by the refraction and reflection of the sun's rays in drops of falling rain. 
Abounding with rain; wet; showery; as, rainy day or season. 
A rope; also, a measure equal to a rod. [Scot.] 
Same as 2d Reis. 
To create or constitute; as, to raise a use that is, to create it. Burrill. To raise a blockade (Mil.), to remove or break up a blockade, either by withdrawing the ships or forces employed in enforcing it, or by driving them away or dispersing them. -- To raise a check, note, bill of exchange, etc., to increase fraudulently its nominal value by changing the writing, figures, or printing in which the sum payable is specified. -- To raise a siege, to relinquish an attempt to take a place by besieging it, or to cause the attempt to be relinquished. -- To raise steam, to produce steam of a required pressure. -- To raise the wind, to procure ready money by some temporary expedient. [Colloq.] -- To raise Cain, or To raise the devil, to cause a great disturbance; to make great trouble. [Slang] 
One who, or that which, raises (in various senses of the verb). 
Arranged systematically, or according to classes or subjects; as, a catalogue raisonné. See under Catalogue. 
A separator. [Scot.] 
Reign; rule. [India] 
Same as Rajah. 
A native prince or king; also, a landholder or person of importance in the agricultural districts. [India] 
A fissure or mineral vein traversing the strata vertically, or nearly so; -- called also rake-vein. Gill rakes. (Anat.) See under 1st Gill. 
To collect or draw together with laborious industry; to gather from a wide space; to scrape together; as, to rake together wealth; to rake together slanderous tales; to rake together the rabble of a town. 
To inclination of anything from a perpendicular direction; as, the rake of a roof, a staircase, etc.; especially (Naut., 
To incline from a perpendicular direction; as, a mast rakes aft. Raking course (Bricklaying), a course of bricks laid diagonally between the face courses in a thick wall, to strengthen. 
A loose, disorderly, vicious man; a person addicted to lewdness and other scandalous vices; a debauchee; a roué. Am illiterate and frivolous old rake. Macaulay. 
To walk about; to gad or ramble idly. [Prov. Eng.] 
Hasty; reckless; rash. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- Ra"kel*ness, n. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Gill rakers, under 1st Gill. 
Debauchery; lewdness. The rakery and intrigues of the lewd town. R. North. 
Dissolute; lewd; debauched. The arduous task of converting a rakish lover. Macaulay. 
Having a saucy appearance indicative of speed and dash. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
An adventitious sound, usually of morbid origin, accompanying the normal respiratory sounds. See Rhonchus. 
To collect, and reduce to order, as troops dispersed or thrown into confusion; to gather again; to reunite. 
To attack with raillery, either in good humor and pleasantry, or with slight contempt or satire. Honeycomb . . . raillies me upon a country life. Addison. Strephon had long confessed his amorous pain. Which gay Corinna rallied with disdain. Gay. 
To use pleasantry, or satirical merriment. 
Good-humored raillery. 
A name sometimes given to the raven. 
Wild; untamed. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to a ramus, or branch; rameal. 
A bed of shale over the seam. Raymond. 
Same as Ramal. Gray. 
A Ramist. Shipley. 
Having the frames, stem, and sternpost adjusted; -- said of a ship on the stocks. 
See Ramie. 
Thin brownish chaffy scales upon the leaves or young shoots of some plants, especially upon the petioles and leaves of ferns. Gray. 
The grasscloth plant (Boehmeria nivea); also, its fiber, which is very fine and exceedingly strong; -- called also China grass, and rhea. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass. 
To divide into branches or subdivisions; as, to ramify an art, subject, scheme. 
Bearing branches; branched. 
A follower of Pierre Ramé, better known as Ramus, a celebrated French scholar, who was professor of rhetoric and philosophy at Paris in the reign of Henry II., and opposed the Aristotelians. 
Refuse matter. [Obs.] Filled with any rubbish, rammel and broken stones. Holland. 
One who, or that which, rams or drives. Specifically: (a) An instrument for driving anything force; as, a rammer for driving stones or piles, or for beating the earth to more solidity. (b) A rod for forcing down the charge of a gun; a ramrod. (c) (Founding) An implement for pounding the sand of a mold to render it compact. 
Like a ram; rammish. Burton. 
A small West Indian tree (Trophis Americana) of the Mulberry family, whose leaves and twigs are used as fodder for cattle. 
Branched, as the stem or root of a plant; having lateral divisions; consisting of, or having, branches; full of branches; ramifying; branching; branchy. 
Ramose. 
An inclined plane serving as a communication between different interior levels. 
The cuckoopint. 
The rod used in ramming home the charge in a muzzle-loading firearm. 
A broad-leaved species of garlic (Allium ursinum), common in European gardens; -- called also buckram. 
A tropical African asteraceous shrub (Guizotia abyssinica) cultivated for its seeds (called ramtil, or niger, seeds) which yield a valuable oil used for food and as an illuminant. 
A branch; a projecting part or prominent process; a ramification. 
imp. of Run. 
Open robbery. [Obs.] Lambarde. 
Yarns coiled on a spun-yarn winch. 
A genus of anurous batrachians, including the common frogs. 
Having a general affinity to ranunculaceous plants. Ranal alliance (Bot.), a name proposed by Lindley for a group of natural orders, including Ranunculaceæ, Magnoliaceæ, Papaveraceæ, and others related to them. 
Becoming rancid or sour. 
To wrench; to tear; to sprain; to injure by violent straining or contortion. [R.] Dryden. "Hasting to raunch the arrow out." Spenser. 
A tract of land used for grazing and rearing of horses, cattle, or sheep. See Rancho, 2. [Western U. S.] 
Having a rank smell or taste, from chemical change or decomposition; musty; as, rancid oil or butter. 
The deepest malignity or spite; deep-seated enmity or malice; inveterate hatred. "To stint rancour and dissencioun." Chaucer. It would not be easy to conceive the passion, rancor, and malice of their tongues and hearts. Burke. 
To rant; to storm. [Obs.] I wept, . . . and raved, randed, and railed. J. Webster. 
The product of a second sifting of meal; the finest part of the bran. [Prov. Eng.] 
A boat propelled by three rowers with four oars, the middle rower pulling two. 
The direction of a rake-vein. Raymond. 
Going at random or by chance; done or made at hazard, or without settled direction, aim, or purpose; hazarded without previous calculation; left to chance; haphazard; as, a random guess. Some random truths he can impart. Wordsworth. So sharp a spur to the lazy, and so strong a bridle to the random. H. Spencer. Random courses (Masonry), courses of unequal thickness. -- Random shot, a shot not directed or aimed toward any particular object, or a shot with the muzzle of the gun much elevated. -- Random work (Masonry), stonework consisting of stones of unequal sizes fitted together, but not in courses nor always with flat beds. 
Random. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To go or stray at random. [Obs.] 
Same as Rani. 
imp. of Ring, v. t. & i. 
To be native to, or to live in; to frequent. 
To be native to, or live in, a certain district or region; as, the peba ranges from Texas to Paraguay. 
The region within which a plant or animal naturally lives. 
The office of the keeper of a forest or park. [Eng.] 
To range about in an irregular manner. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Inclined or able to range, or rove about, for considerable distances; apt or suited for much roving, --chiefly used of cattle. 
A queen or princess; the wife of a rajah. [Written also ranee.] [India] 
Of or pertaining to the frogs and toads. 
Rankly; stoutly; violently. [Obs.] That rides so rank and bends his lance so fell. Fairfax. 
A line of soldiers ranged side by side; -- opposed to file. See 1st File, 1 (a). Fierce, fiery warriors fought upon the clouds, In ranks and squadrons and right form of war. Shak. 
One who ranks, or disposes in ranks; one who arranges. 
To cause to fester; to make sore; to inflame. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 
With rank or vigorous growth; luxuriantly; hence, coarsely; grossly; as, weeds grow rankly. 
A prostitute. [Obs.] 
The erd shrew. [Scot.] 
A sum paid for the pardon of some great offense and the discharge of the offender; also, a fine paid in lieu of corporal punishment. Blackstone. Ransom bill (Law), a war contract, valid by the law of nations, for the ransom of property captured at sea and its safe conduct into port. Kent. 
Such as can be ransomed. 
To rave in violent, high-sounding, or extravagant language, without dignity of thought; to be noisy, boisterous, and bombastic in talk or declamation; as, a ranting preacher. Look where my ranting host of the Garter comes! Shak. 
High-sounding language, without importance or dignity of thought; boisterous, empty declamation; bombast; as, the rant of fanatics. This is a stoical rant, without any foundation in the nature of man or reason of things. Atterbury. 
The practice or tenets of the Ranters. 
Wild; noisy; boisterous. 
A cyst formed under the tongue by obstruction of the duct of the submaxillary gland. 
A lay or skein containing 120 yards of yarn. Knight. 
To strike with a quick, sharp blow; to knock; as, to rap on the door. 
To free (a pattern) in a mold by light blows on the pattern, so as to facilitate its removal. 
A quick, smart blow; a knock. 
A popular name for any of the tokens that passed current for a half-penny in Ireland in the early part of the eighteenth century; any coin of trifling value. Many counterfeits passed about under the name of raps. Swift. Tie it [her money] up so tight that you can't touch a rap, save with her consent. Mrs. Alexander. Not to care a rap, to care nothing. -- Not worth a rap, worth nothing. 
Sexual connection with a woman without her consent. See Age of consent, under Consent, n. statutory rape. 
To commit rape upon; to ravish. raped first by their assailant, and then by the Justice system. Corresponds to 2nd rape, n. 5. To rape and ren. See under Rap, v. t., to snatch. 
To rob; to pillage. [Obs.] Heywood. 
One of six divisions of the county of Sussex, England, intermediate between a hundred and a shire. 
A name given to a variety or to varieties of a plant of the turnip kind, grown for seeds and herbage. The seeds are used for the production of rape oil, and to a limited extent for the food of cage birds. 
A line, ridge, furrow, or band of fibers, especially in the median line; as, the raphe of the tongue. 
The part of a river where the current moves with great swiftness, but without actual waterfall or cascade; -- usually in the plural; as, the Lachine rapids in the St. Lawrence. Row, brothers, row the stream runs fast, The rapids are near, and the daylight's past. Moore. 
A straight sword, with a narrow and finely pointed blade, used only for thrusting. Rapier fish (Zoöl.), the swordfish. [Obs.] Grew. 
To plunder. Sir G. Buck. 
imp. & p. p. of Rap, to strike. 
imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away. 
A pungent kind of snuff made from the darker and ranker kinds of tobacco leaves. 
The beat of the drum to call soldiers to arms. 
Relation; proportion; conformity; correspondence; accord. 'T is obvious what rapport there is between the conceptions and languages in every country. Sir W. Temple. En` rap`port" ( Etym: [F.], in accord, harmony, or sympathy; having a mutual, especially a private, understanding; in mesmerism, in that relation of sympathy which permits influence or communication. 
imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away. 
A raptor. [Obs.] Drayton. 
A ravisher; a plunderer. [Obs.] 
Early. [Obs.] Rude mechanicals that rare and late Work in the market place. Chapman. 
Nearly raw; partially cooked; not thoroughly cooked; underdone; as, rare beef or mutton. New-laid eggs, which Baucis' busy care Turned by a gentle fire, and roasted rare. Dryden. 
A dainty morsel; a Welsh rabbit. See Welsh rabbit, under Rabbit. 
To make rare, thin, porous, or less dense; to expand or enlarge without adding any new portion of matter to; -- opposed to condense. 
To become less dense; to become thin and porous. "Earth rarefies to dew." Dryden. 
The state or quality of being rare. And let the rareness the small gift commend. Dryden. 
See 2d Reis. 
Of or pertaining to the common herd or common people; low; mean; base. "The rascal many." Spencer. "The rascal people." Shak. While she called me rascal fiddler. Shak. 
To be leveled with the ground; to fall; to suffer overthrow. [Obs.] 
A way of measuring in which the commodity measured was made even with the top of the measuring vessel by rasing, or striking off, all that was above it. Burrill. 
A fine eruption or efflorescence on the body, with little or no elevation. Canker rash. See in the Vocabulary. -- Nettle rash. See Urticaria. -- Rose rash. See Roseola. -- Tooth rash. See Red-gum. 
An inferior kind of silk, or mixture of silk and worsted. [Obs.] Donne. 
To prepare with haste. [Obs.] Foxe. 
A California rockfish (Sebastichthys miniatus). 
In a rush manner; with precipitation. He that doth anything rashly, must do it willingly; for he was free to deliberate or not. L'Estrange. 
Rasor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Raspatory. 
One who, or which, rasps; a scraper. 
The raspberry. [Obs.] Langham. 
Like a rasp, or the sound made by a rasp; grating. R. D. Blackmore. 
A carnivore (Viverricula Mallaccensis) allied to the civet but smaller, native of China and the East Indies. It furnishes a perfume resembling that of the civet, which is highly prized by the Javanese. Called also Malacca weasel, and lesser civet. 
One of the several species of small rodents of the genus Mus and allied genera, larger than mice, that infest houses, stores, and ships, especially the Norway, or brown, rat (M. Alexandrinus). These were introduced into Anerica from the Old World. 
A New Zealand forest tree (Metrosideros robusta), also, its hard dark red wood, used by the Maoris for paddles and war clubs. 
See Rattan. 
Same as Rhatany. 
Same as Rotche. 
A ratchet wheel, or notched bar, with which a pawl or chick works. 
To chide with vehemence; to scold; to censure violently. Spencer. Go, rate thy minions, proud, insulting boy! Shak. Conscience is a check to beginners in sin, reclaiming them from it, and rating them for it. Barrow. 
The gain or loss of a timepiece in a unit of time; as, daily rate; hourly rate; etc. 
See Ratable. 
Any carnivore of the genus Mellivora, allied to the weasels and the skunks; -- called also honey badger. 
One who rates or estimates. 
One who rates or scolds. 
Coming before others, or before the usual time; early. [Obs. or Poetic] Bring the rathe primrose that forsaken dies. Milton. 
Prior; earlier; former. [Obs.] Now no man dwelleth at the rather town. Sir J. Mandeville. 
Rareripe, or early ripe. -- n. 
To approve and sanction; to make valid; to establish; to settle; especially, to give sanction to, as something done by an agent or servant; as, to ratify an agreement, treaty, or contract; to ratify a nomination. It is impossible for the divine power to set a seal to a lie by ratifying an imposture with such a miracle. South. 
The relation which one quantity or magnitude has to another of the same kind. It is expressed by the quotient of the division of the first by the second; thus, the ratio of 3 to 6 is expressed by a to b by a/b; or (less commonly) the second is made the dividend; as, a:b = b/a. 
To supply with rations, as a regiment. 
Of or pertaining to the Ratitæ. -- n. 
A small rat. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
Same as Rattoon, v. i. 
One of the long slender flexible stems of several species of palms of the genus Calamus, mostly East Indian, though some are African and Australian. They are exceedingly tough, and are used for walking sticks, wickerwork, chairs and seats of chairs, cords and cordage, and many other purposes. 
To deprive feloniously of the tools used in one's employment (as by breaking or stealing them), for the purpose of annoying; as, to ratten a mechanic who works during a strike. [Trades-union Cant] J. McCarthy. 
A woolen stuff thinner than ratteen. 
Any organ of an animal having a structure adapted to produce a ratting sound. 
Hoarse; raucous [R.] Lamb. 
imp. & p. p. of Reach. Shak. 
imp. & p. p. of Reck. Chaucer. 
See Ranch. Spenser. 
Desolation by violence; violent ruin or destruction; devastation; havoc; waste; as, the ravage of a lion; the ravages of fire or tempest; the ravages of an army, or of time. Would one think 't were possible for love To make such ravage in a noble soul Addison. 
To lay waste by force; to desolate by violence; to commit havoc or devastation upon; to spoil; to plunder; to consume. Already Cæsar Has ravaged more than half the globe. Addison. His lands were daily ravaged, his cattle driven away. Macaulay. 
One of the upper side pieces of the frame of a wagon body or a sleigh. 
To utter in madness or frenzy; to say wildly; as, to rave nonsense. Young. 
One who ravels. 
A large black passerine bird (Corvus corax), similar to the crow, but larger. It is native of the northern part of Europe, Asia and America, and is noted for its sagacity. Sea raven (Zoöl.), the cormorant. 
Of the color of the raven; jet black; as, raven curls; raven darkness. 
To prey with rapacity; to be greedy; to show rapacity. [Written also ravin, and ravine.] Benjamin shall raven as a wolf. Gen. xlix. 27. 
One who raves. 
Ravenous. [Obs.] Shak. 
Talking irrationally and wildly; as, a raving lunatic. -- Rav"ing*ly, adv. 
One who ravishes (in any sense). 
A raw, sore, or galled place; a sensitive spot; as, to touch one on the raw. Like savage hackney coachmen, they know where there is a raw. De Quincey. 
Somewhat raw. [R.] Marston. 
The quality or state of being raw. 
Array; order; arrangement; dress. [Obs.] And spoiling all her gears and goodly ray. Spenser. 
A radiating part of the flower or plant; the marginal florets of a compound flower, as an aster or a sunflower; one of the pedicels of an umbel or other circular flower cluster; radius. See Radius. 
To send forth or shoot out; to cause to shine out; as, to ray smiles. [R.] Thompson. 
To shine, as with rays. Mrs. Browning. 
A person not a Mohammedan, who pays the capitation tax. [Turkey.] 
Ray; beam. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A Shakespearean word (used once) supposed to mean the same as race, a root. 
Slashed or striped in patterns. [Obs.] "Two Provincial roses on my razed shoes." Shak. 
An armed ship having her upper deck cut away, and thus reduced to the next inferior rate, as a seventy-four cut down to a frigate. Totten. 
To cut down to a less number of decks, and thus to an inferior rate or glass, as a ship; hence, to prune or abridge by cutting off or retrenching parts; as, to razee a book, or an article. 
A task of a wild boar. Razor fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A small Mediterranean fish (Coryphæna novacula), prized for the table. (b) The razor shell. -- Razor grass (Bot.), a West Indian plant (Scleria scindens), the triangular stem and the leaves of which are edged with minute sharp teeth. -- Razor grinder (Zoöl.), the European goat-sucker. -- Razor shell (Zoöl.), any marine bivalve shell belonging to Solen and allied genera, especially Solen, or Ensatella, ensis, and Americana, which have a long, narrow, somewhat curved shell, resembling a razor handle in shape. Called also rasor clam, razor fish, knife handle. -- Razor stone. Same as Novaculite. -- Razor strap, or razor strop, a strap or strop used in sharpening razors. 
A plundering and destructive incursion; a foray; a rai 
An effort to vomit. [R.] 
To sail on the wind, as from one point of tacking to another, or with the ind nearly abeam. To reach after or at, to make efforts to attain to or obtain. He would be in the mind reaching after a positive idea of infinity. Locke. 
Being within reach. 
To act or perform a second time; to do over again; as, to react a play; the same scenes were reacted at Rome. 
The influence of a coil of wire upon an alternating current passing through it, tending to choke or diminish the current, or the similar influence of a condenser; inductive resistance. Reactance is measured in ohms. The reactance of a circuit is equal to the component of the impressed electro-motive force at right angles to the current divided by the current, that is, the component of the impedance due to the self-inductance or capacity of the circuit. 
Rennet. See 3d Reed. [Prov. Eng.] 
Reading. [Colloq.] Hume. One newswoman here lets magazines for a penny a read. Furnivall. 
imp. & p. p. of Read, v. t. & i. 
Instructed or knowing by reading; versed in books; learned. A poet . . . well read in Longinus. Addison. 
The office of reader. Lyell. 
A word of command, or a position, in the manual of arms, at which the piece is cocked and held in position to execute promptly the next command, which is, aim. All ready, ready in every particular; wholly equipped or prepared. "[I] am all redy at your hest." Chaucer. -- Ready money, means of immediate payment; cash. "'Tis all the ready money fate can give." Cowley. -- Ready reckoner, a book of tables for facilitating computations, as of interest, prices, etc. -- To make ready, to make preparation; to get in readiness. 
In a state of preparation for immediate action; so as to need no delay. We ourselves will go ready armed. Num. xxxii. 17. 
Ready money; cash; -- commonly with the; as, he was supplied with the ready. [Slang] Lord Strut was not flush in ready, either to go to law, or to clear old debts. Arbuthnot. 
To dispose in order. [Obs.] Heywood. 
A rush. [Obs.] "Feeds on reaks and reeds." Drant. 
A prank. [Obs.] "They play such reaks." Beau & Fl. 
A small Spanish silver coin; also, a denomination of money of account, formerly the unit of the Spanish monetary system. 
Royal; regal; kingly. [Obs.] "The blood real of Thebes." Chaucer. 
Having an assignable arithmetical or numerical value or meaning; not imaginary. 
A realist. [Obs.] Burton. 
Royally. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In a real manner; with or in reality; actually; in truth. Whose anger is really but a short fit of madness. Swift. 
Destitute of a realm. Keats. 
Cream; also, the cream or froth on ale. [Scot.] 
To cream; to mantle. [Scot.] A huge pewter measuring pot which, in the language of the hostess, reamed with excellent claret. Sir W. Scott. 
To stretch out; to draw out into thongs, threads, or filaments. 
A bundle, package, or quantity of paper, usually consisting of twenty quires or 480 sheets. Printer's ream, twenty-one and a half quires. [Eng.] A common practice is now to count five hundred sheets to the ream. Knight. 
To bevel out, as the mouth of a hole in wood or metal; in modern usage, to enlarge or dress out, as a hole, with a reamer. 
Realm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who, or that which, reams; specifically, an instrument with cutting or scraping edges, used, with a twisting motion, for enlarging a round hole, as a bore of a cannon, etc. 
To perform the act or operation of reaping; to gather a harvest. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. Ps. cxxvi. 5. 
A bundle of grain; a handful of grain laid down by the reaper as it is cut. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
To clothe again. 
Early; soon. [Prov. Eng.] Then why does Cuddy leave his cot so rear! Gay. 
Being behind, or in the hindmost part; hindmost; as, the rear rank of a company. Rear admiral, an officer in the navy, next in rank below a vice admiral, and above a commodore. See Admiral. -- Rear front (Mil.), the rear rank of a body of troops when faced about and standing in that position. -- Rear guard (Mil.), the division of an army that marches in the rear of the main body to protect it; -- used also figuratively. -- Rear line (Mil.), the line in the rear of an army. -- Rear rank (Mil.), the rank or line of a body of troops which is in the rear, or last in order. -- Rear sight (Firearms), the sight nearest the breech. -- To bring up the rear, to come last or behind. 
To place in the rear; to secure the rear of. [R.] 
To rise up on the hind legs, as a horse; to become erect. Rearing bit, a bit designed to prevent a horse from lifting his head when rearing. Knight. 
One he, or that which, rears. 
Early. [Obs.] Beau. & Ft. 
Ratio; proportion. [Obs.] Barrow. By reason of, by means of; on account of; because of. "Spain is thin sown of people, partly by reason of the sterility of the soil." Bacon. In reason, In all reason, in justice; with rational ground; in a right view. When anything is proved by as good arguments as a thing of that kind is capable of, we ought not, in reason, to doubt of its existence. Tillotson. -- It is reason, it is reasonable; it is right. [Obs.] Yet it were great reason, that those that have children should have greatest care of future times. Bacon. 
Reasonable; tolerably. [Obs.] I have a reasonable good ear in music. Shak. 
Rusty and rancid; -- applied to salt meat. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Tusser. -- Reas"ti*ness, n. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
A lariat. 
Realm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To take away by violence or by stealth; to snatch away; to rob; to despoil; to bereave. [Archaic]. "To reave his life." Spenser. He golden apples raft of the dragon. Chaucer. By privy stratagem my life at home. Chapman. To reave the orphan of his patrimony. Shak. The heaven caught and reft him of his tongue. Tennyson. 
One who reaves. [Archaic] 
To abate; to withdraw. [Obs.] Foxe. 
Deduction; abatement; as, a rebate of interest for immediate payment; a rebate of importation duties. Bouvier. 
A restangular longitudinal recess or groove, cut in the corner or edge of any body; a rabbet. See Rabbet. 
To cut a rebate in. See Rabbet, v. 
Same as Rabato. Burton. 
An instrument formerly used which somewhat resembled the violin, having three strings, and being played with a bow. [Written also rebeck.] Milton. He turn'd his rebec to a mournful note. Drayton. 
Pertaining to rebels or rebellion; acting in revolt; rebellious; as, rebel troops. Whoso be rebel to my judgment. Chaucer. Convict by flight, and rebel to all law. Milton. 
One who rebels. 
A region infested by rebels; rebels, considered collectively; also, conduct o Thackeray. 
Born again. 
A kind of mantilla worn by women over the head and shoulders, and sometimes over part of the face. [Mexico & Sp. Amer.] 
To beat back; to offer sudden resistance to; to check; to repel or repulse violently, harshly, or uncourteously. 
To check, silence, or put down, with reproof; to restrain by expression of disapprobation; to reprehend sharply and summarily; to chide; to reprove; to admonish. The proud he tamed, the penitent he cheered, Nor to rebuke the rich offender feared. Dryden. 
Containing rebuke; of the nature of rebuke. [Obs.] -- Re*buke"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] 
To bury again. Ashmole. 
A pictorial suggestion on a coat of arms of the name of the person to whom it belongs. See Canting arms, under Canting. 
To mark or indicate by a rebus. He [John Morton] had a fair library rebused with More in text and Tun under it. Fuller. 
To contradict, meet, or oppose by argument, plea, or countervailing proof. Abbott. 
To make, or put in, an answer, as to a plaintiff's surrejoinder. The plaintiff may answer the rejoinder by a surrejoinder; on which the defendant. Blackstone. 
A call on the trumpet, bugle, or drum, by which soldiers are recalled from duty, labor, etc. Wilhelm. 
To withdraw or repudiate formally and publicly (opinions formerly expressed); to contradict, as a former declaration; to take back openly; to retract; to recall. How soon . . . ease would recant Vows made in pain, as violent and void! Milton. 
To revoke a declaration or proposition; to unsay what has been said; to retract; as, convince me that I am wrong, and I will recant. Dryden. 
To reck. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To cede back; to grant or yield again to a former possessor; as, to recede conquered territory. 
Receipt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to the present or existing epoch; as, recent shells. 
A sinus. 
To make a recess in; as, to recess a wall. 
A decree of the imperial diet of the old German empire. Brande & C. 
A formulary or prescription for making some combination, mixture, or preparation of materials; a receipt; especially, a prescription for medicine. 
To state in or as a recital. See Recital, 5. 
To repeat, pronounce, or rehearse, as before an audience, something prepared or committed to memory; to rehearse a lesson learned. 
A recital. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple. 
To make account; to take heed; to care; to mind; -- often followed by of. [Archaic] Then reck I not, when I have lost my life. Chaucer. I reck not though I end my life to-day. Shak. Of me she recks not, nor my vain desire. M. Arnold. 
One who reckons or computes; also, a book of calculation, tables, etc., to assist in reckoning. Reckoners without their host must reckon twice. Camden. 
To boil or cook again; hence, to make over; to vamp up; to reconstruct. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 
To draw or go back. [Obs.] Spenser. 
One who, or that which, recoils. 
To coin anew or again. 
To copy again. 
Remembrance. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to the rectum; in the region of the rectum. 
A writ of right. 
The right-hand page; -- opposed to verso. 
A clergyman in charge of a parish. 
The terminal part of the large intestine; -- so named because supposed by the old anatomists to be straight. See Illust. under Digestive. 
A straight muscle; as, the recti of the eye. 
To recoil. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To lean; to recline; to repose. [Obs.] J. Allen (1761). 
Cure; remedy; recovery. [Obs.] But whom he hite, without recure he dies. Fairfax. 
To refuse or reject, as a judge; to challenge that the judge shall not try the cause. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 
. imp. & p. p. of Read. Spenser. 
To put on order; to make tidy; also, to free from entanglement or embarrassement; -- generally with up; as, to red up a house. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
Of the color of blood, or of a tint resembling that color; of the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is furthest from the violet part. "Fresh flowers, white and reede." Chaucer. Your color, I warrant you, is as red as any rose. Shak. 
An abbreviation for Red Republican. See under Red, a. [Cant] 
To reduce to form, as literary matter; to digest and put in shape (matter for publication); to edit. 
A work having two parapets whose faces unite so as to form a salient angle toward the enemy. 
A small ornamental leguminous tree of the American species of the genus Cercis. See Judas tree, under Judas. 
The European goldfinch. 
obs. imp. of Read, or Rede. Chaucer. 
To make red or somewhat red; to give a red color to. 
To grow or become red; to blush. Appius reddens at each word you speak. Pope. He no sooner saw that her eye glistened and her cheek reddened than his obstinacy was at once subbued. Sir W. SCott. 
Red chalk. See under Chalk. 
Hence, to rescue and deliver from the bondage of sin and the penalties of God's violated law. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. Gal. iii. 13. 
A small North American dace (Minnilus cornutus, or Notropis megalops). The male, in the breeding season, has bright red fins. Called also red dace, and shiner. Applied also to Notropis ardens, of the Mississippi valley. 
A kind of larva, or nurse, which is prroduced within the sporocyst of certain trematodes by asexual generation. It in turn produces, in the same way, either another generation of rediæ, or else cercariæ within its own body. Called also proscolex, and nurse. See Illustration in Appendix. 
A reserve force in the Turkish army, or a soldier of the reserve. See Army organization, above. 
In a red manner; with redness. 
A Bohemian dance of two kinds, one in triple time, like a waltz, the other in two-four time, like a polka. The former is most in use. 
To draw again; to make a second draft or copy of; to redraft. 
To draw a new bill of exchange, as the holder of a protested bill, on the drawer or indorsers. 
A kind of grass (Agrostis vulgaris) highly valued in the United States for pasturage and hay for cattle; -- called also English grass, and in some localities herd's grass. See Illustration in Appendix. The tall redtop is Triodia seslerioides. 
To refit; to repair, or make reparation for; hence, to repay or requite. [Obs.] It shall be good that you redub that negligence. Wyatt. God shall give power to redub it with some like requital to the French. Grafton. 
To bring to the metallic state by separating from impurities; hence, in general, to remove oxygen from; to deoxidize; to combine with, or to subject to the action of, hydrogen; as, ferric iron is reduced to ferrous iron; or metals are reduced from their ores; -- opposed to Ant: oxidize. 
To reduce. [Obs.] W. Warde. 
A central or retired work within any other work. 
See Rei. 
To riddle; to sift; to separate or throw off. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Mortimer. 
The peele. [Written also rehboc and rheeboc.] 
To give echoes; to return back, or be reverberated, as an echo; to resound; to be resonant. And a loud groan reëchoes from the main. Pope. 
The echo of an echo; a repeated or second echo. 
Smoky; reeky; hence, begrimed with dirt. [Obs.] 
Red. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Rede. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The fourth stomach of a ruminant; rennet. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.] 
A name given to many tall and coarse grasses or grasslike plants, and their slender, often jointed, stems, such as the various kinds of bamboo, and especially the common reed of Europe and North America (Phragmites communis). 
Consisting of a reed or reeds. Through reeden pipes convey the golden flood. Dryden. 
A large vein of auriferous quartz; -- so called in Australia. Hence, any body of rock yielding valuable ore. Reef builder (Zoöl.), any stony coral which contributes material to the formation of coral reefs. -- Reef heron (Zoöl.), any heron of the genus Demigretta; as, the blue reef heron (D.jugularis) of Australia. 
That part of a sail which is taken in or let out by means of the reef points, in order to adapt the size of the sail to the force of the wind. 
To reduce the extent of (as a sail) by roiling or folding a certain portion of it and making it fast to the yard or spar. Totten. To reef the paddles, to move the floats of a paddle wheel toward its center so that they will not dip so deeply. 
One who reefs; -- a name often given to midshipmen. Marryat. 
Full of reefs or rocks. 
A rick. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Vapor; steam; smoke; fume. As hateful to me as the reek of a limekiln. Shak. 
To emit vapor, usually that which is warm and moist; to be full of fumes; to steam; to smoke; to exhale. Few chimneys reeking you shall espy. Spenser. I found me laid In balmy sweat, which with his beams the sun Soon dried, and on the reeking moisture fed. Milton. The coffee rooms reeked with tobacco. Macualay. 
A lively dance of the Highlanders of Scotland; also, the music to the dance; -- often called Scotch reel. Virginia reel, the common name throughout the United States for the old English "country dance," or contradance (contredanse). Bartlett. 
A device consisting of radial arms with horizontal stats, connected with a harvesting machine, for holding the stalks of grain in position to be cut by the knives. Reel oven, a baker's oven in which bread pans hang suspended from the arms of a kind of reel revolving on a horizontal axis. Knight. 
The act or motion of reeling or staggering; as, a drunken reel. Shak. 
The grasshopper warbler; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] 
The Hebrew name of a horned wild animal, probably the Urus. 
To open (the seams of a vessel's planking) for the purpose of calking them. Reeming iron (Naut.), an iron chisel for reeming the seams of planks in calking ships. 
The female of the ruff. 
To pass, as the end of a pope, through any hole in a block, thimble, cleat, ringbolt, cringle, or the like. 
an officer, steward, bailiff, or governor; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, shirereeve, now written sheriff; portreeve, etc. Chaucer. Piers Plowman. 
Grown rank; rancid; rusty. [Obs.] "Reezed bacon." Marston. 
A drawn game; specif. (Trente et quarante), 
To go over again; to repeat. [Obs.] To him therefore this wonder done refar. Fairfax. 
To restore after hunger or fatique; to refresh. [Archaic] Sir T. Browne. 
To refute; to disprove; as, to refel the tricks of a sophister. [Obs.] How he refelled me, and how I replied. Shak. 
Capable of being referred, or considered in relation to something else; assignable; ascribable. [Written also referrible.] It is a question among philosophers, whether all the attractions which obtain between bodies are referable to one general cause. W. Nicholson. 
To fill, or become full, again. 
To find again; to get or experience again. Sandys. 
Freed from impurities or alloy; purifed; polished; cultured; delicate; as; refined gold; refined language; refined sentiments. Refined wits who honored poesy with their pens. Peacham. -- Re*fin"ed*ly (r, adv. -- Re*fin"ed*ness, n. 
To obtain repairs or supplies; as, the fleet returned to refit. 
To fix again or anew; to establish anew. Fuller. 
Luster; special brilliancy of surface; -- used esp. in ceramics to denote the peculiar metallic brilliancy seen in lustered pottery such as majolica; as, silver reflet; gold reflet. 
Of, pertaining to, or produced by, stimulus or excitation without the necessary intervention of consciousness. Reflex action (Physiol.), any action performed involuntarily in consequence of an impulse or impression transmitted along afferent nerves to a nerve center, from which it is reflected to an efferent nerve, and so calls into action certain muscles, organs, or cells. -- Reflex nerve (Physiol.), an excito-motory nerve. See Exito- motory. 
An involuntary movement produced by reflex action. Patellar reflex. See Knee jerk, under Knee. 
Bent backward or outward. 
To flow back; to ebb. 
Returning, or flowing back; reflex; as, reflux action. 
A flowing back, as the return of a fluid; ebb; reaction; as, the flux and reflux of the tides. All from me Shall with a fierce reflux on me redound. Milton. 
To fold again. 
To put into a new and improved form or condition; to restore to a former good state, or bring from bad to good; to change from worse to better; to amend; to correct; as, to reform a profligate man; to reform corrupt manners or morals. The example alone of a vicious prince will corrupt an age; but that of a good one will not reform it. Swift. 
To return to a good state; to amend or correct one's own character or habits; as, a man of settled habits of vice will seldom reform. 
Amendment of what is defective, vicious, corrupt, or depraved; reformation; as, reform of elections; reform of government. Civil service reform. See under Civil. -- Reform acts (Eng. Politics), acts of Parliament passed in 1832, 1867, 1884, 1885, extending and equalizing popular representation in Parliament. -- Reform school, a school established by a state or city government, for the confinement, instruction, and reformation of juvenile offenders, and of young persons of idle, vicious, and vagrant habits. [U. S.] 
Refrain. [Obs.] Bailey. 
Bereft. Reft of thy sons, amid thy foes forlorn. Heber. 
A chink; a rift. See Rift. Rom. of R. 
To shelter; to protect. [Obs.] 
To fund again or anew; to replace (a fund or loan) by a new fund; as, to refund a railroad loan. 
One who refunds. 
To throw back, or cause to keep back (as the center, a wing, or a flank), out of the regular aligment when troops aras, to refuse the right wing while the left wing attacks. 
To deny compliance; not to comply. Too proud to ask, too humble to refuse. Garth. If ye refuse . . . ye shall be devoured with the sword. Isa. i. 20. 
Refusal. [Obs.] Fairfax. 
That which is refused or rejected as useless; waste or worthless matter. 
Refused; rejected; hence; left as unworthy of acceptance; of no value; worthless. Everything that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly. 1. Sam. xv. 9. 
Refuge. "Thou haven of refut." [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To disprove and overthrow by argument, evidence, or countervailing proof; to prove to be false or erroneous; to confute; as, to refute arguments; to refute testimony; to refute opinions or theories; to refute a disputant. There were so many witnesses in these two miracles that it is impossible to refute such multitudes. Addison. 
To gain anew; to get again; to recover, as what has escaped or been lost; to reach again. 
Of or pertaining to a king; kingly; royal; as, regal authority, pomp, or sway. "The regal title." Shak. He made a scorn of his regal oath. Milton. 
A small portable organ, played with one hand, the bellows being worked with the other, -- used in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. 
A prerogative of royalty. [R.] Johnson. 
To enertaas, to regale the taste, the eye, or the ear. 
To feast; t 
A sumptuous repast; a banquet. Johnson. Cowper. Two baked custards were produced as additions to the regale. E. E. Hale. 
To look attentively; to consider; to notice. [Obs.] Shak. 
Supervision; inspection. At regard of, in consideration of; in comparison with. [Obs.] "Bodily penance is but short and little at regard of the pains of hell." Chaucer. -- Court of regard, a forest court formerly held in England every third year for the lawing, or expeditation, of dogs, to prevent them from running after deer; -- called also survey of dogs. Blackstone. 
See Rigel. 
A resident master of arts of less than five years' standing, or a doctor of less than twwo. They were formerly privileged to lecture in the schools. Regent bird (Zoöl.), a beautiful Australian bower bird (Sericulus melinus). The male has the head, neck, and large patches on the wings, bright golden yellow, and the rest of the plumage deep velvety black; -- so called in honor of the Prince of Wales (afterward George IV.), who was Prince Regent in the reign of George III. -- The Regents of the University of the State of New York, the members of a corporate body called the University of New York. They have a certain supervisory power over the incorporated institution for Academic and higher education in the State. 
A register. [Obs.] Milton. 
To get again. 
An upholder of kingly authority; a royalist. [Obs.] Fuller. 
To gild anew. 
The condition of a river with respect to the rate of its flow, as measured by the volume of water passing different cross sections in a given time, uniform régime being the condition when the flow is equal and uniform at all the cross sections. The ancient régime, or Ancien régime Etym: [F.], the former political and social system, as distinguished from the modern; especially, the political and social system existing in France before the Revolution of 1789. 
Of or pertaining to a particular region; sectional. 
Of or pertaining to a king; royal. Regius professor, an incumbent of a professorship founded by royal bounty, as in an English university. 
To give again; to give back. 
To rule; to govern. [Obs.] "To regle their lives." Fuller. 
A flat, narrow molding, used chiefly to separate the parts or members of compartments or panels from one another, or doubled, turned, and interlaced so as to form knots, frets, or other ornaments. See Illust. (12) of Column. 
A kind of dry fruit, consisting of three or more cells, each which at length breaks open at the inner angle. 
Of or pertaining to the reign of a monarch; as, regnal years. 
See Reign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To experience regret on account of; to lose or miss with a sense of regret; to feel sorrow or dissatisfaction on account of (the happening or the loss of something); as, to regret an error; to regret lost opportunities or friends. Calmly he looked on either life, and here Saw nothing to regret, or there to fear. Pope. In a few hours they [the Israelites] began to regret their slavery, and to murmur against their leader. Macaulay. Recruits who regretted the plow from which they had been violently taken. Macaulay. 
To grow again. The snail had power to regrow them all [horns, tongue, etc.] A. B. Buckley. 
To hash over again; to prepare or use again; as, to rehash old arguments. 
Something hashed over, or made up from old materials. 
To hear again; to try a second time; as, to rehear a cause in Chancery. 
The returning of a thing purchased to the seller, on the ground of defect or frand. 
To hire again. 
A portuguese money of account, in value about one tenth of a cent. [Spelt also ree.] 
Robbery; spoil. [Obs.] 
A hollow cut or channel for quiding anything; as, the reigle of a side post for a flood gate. Carew. 
To regulate; to govern. [Obs.] 
One who reigns. [R.] 
A strip of oxhide, deprived of hair, and rendered pliable, -- used for twisting into ropes, etc. [South Africa] Simmonds. 
To be guided by reins. [R.] Shak. 
To insert again. 
The word is used as a Portuguese designation of money of account, one hundred reis being about equal in value to eleven cents. 
A common title in the East for a person in authority, especially the captain of a ship. [Written also rais and ras.] 
Sedge; seaweed. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
A German cavalry soldier of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. 
See Reaver. Ruskin. 
Capable of being, or that ought to be, rejected. 
To answer, as the defendant to the plaintiff's replication. 
A reacting jolt or shock; a rebound or recoil. [R.] These inward rejolts and recoilings of the mind. South. 
To jolt or shake again. Locke. 
To reckon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To lade or load again. 
imp. & p. p. of Relay. 
A narrow space between the foot of the rampart and the scarp of the ditch, serving to receive the earth that may crumble off or be washed down, and prevent its falling into the ditch. Wilhelm. 
To land again; to put on land, as that which had been shipped or embarked. 
To go on shore after having embarked; to land again. 
Same as Relative, 4. 
Relaxation. [Obs.] Feltham. 
Relaxed; lax; hence, remiss; careless. 
To lay again; to lay a second time; as, to relay a pavement. 
In various forms of telegrapfhic apparatus, a megnet which receives the circuit current, and is caused by it to bring into into action the power of a local battery for performing the work of making the record; also, a similar device by which the current in one circuit is made to open or close another circuit in which a current is passing. Relay battery (Elec.), the local battery which is brought into use by the action of the relay magnet, or relay. 
The roots of the Chilian plant Calceolaria arachnoidea, -- used for dyeing crimson. 
Stay; stop; delay. [Obs.] Nor rested till she came without relent Unto the land of Amazona. Spenser. 
In the manner of relics. [Obs.] 
A woman whose husband is dead; a widow. Eli dying without issue, Jacob was obbliged by law to marry his relict, and so to raise up seed to his brother Eli. South. 
A fine or composition which the heir of a deceased tenant paid to the lord for the privilege of taking up the estate, which, on strict feudal principles, had lapsed or fallen to the lord on the death of the tenant. 
One who relies. 
Relic. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To have a pleasing or appetizing taste; to give gratification; to have a flavor. Had I been the finder-out of this secret, it would not have relished among my other discredits. Shak. A theory, which, how much soever it may relish of wit and invention, hath no foundation in nature. Woodward. 
The projection or shoulder at the side of, or around, a tenon, on a tenoned piece. Knight. 
To live again; to revive. 
To recall to life; to revive. [Obs.] 
To load again, as a gun. 
A second lending of the same thing; a renewal of a loan. 
To love in return. [Obs.] Boyle. 
To strive or struggle against anything; to make resistance; to draw back; to feel or show repugnance or reluctance. Apt to reluct at the excesses of it [passion]. Walton. 
To rekindle; to light again. Relumed her ancient light, not kindled new. Pope. I know not where is that Promethean heat That can thy light relume. Shak. 
To rest with confidence, as when fully satisfied of the veracity, integrity, or ability of persons, or of the certainty of facts or of evidence; to have confidence; to trust; to depend; -- with on, formerly also with in. Go in thy native innocence; rely On what thou hast of virtue. Milton. On some fond breast the parting soul relies. Gray. 
imp. & p. p. of Remake. 
To await; to be left to. [Archaic] The easier conquest now remains thee. Milton. 
The quantity or sum that is left after subtraction, or after any deduction. 
To make anew. 
To recommit; to send back. Remand it to its former place. South. Then were they remanded to the cage again. Bunyan. 
The act of remanding; the order for recommitment. 
To make a remark or remarks; to comment. 
Worthy of being remarked or noticed; noticeable; conspicuous; hence, uncommon; extraordinary. 'T is remarkable, that they Talk most who have the least to say. Prior. There is nothing left remarlable Beneath the visiting moon. Shak. 
To furnish with a new mast or set of masts. 
To remove. [Prov.Eng.] Grose. Tennyson. 
Realm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To give meaning to; to explain the meaning of; to interpret. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
Remedy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The legal means to recover a right, or to obtain redress for a wrong. Civil remedy. See under Civil. -- Remedy of the mint (Coinage), a small allowed deviation from the legal standard of weight and fineness; -- called also tolerance. 
To apply a remedy to; to relieve; to cure; to heal; to repair; to redress; to correct; to counteract. I will remedy this gear ere long. Shak. 
To melt again. 
To put (one) in mind of something; to bring to the remembrance of; to bring to the notice or consideration of (a person). When age itself, which will not be defied, shall begin to arrest, seize, and remind us of our mortality. South. 
To send, give, or grant back; torelease a claim to; to resign or surrender by deed; to return. Blackstone. 
A giving or granting back; surrender; return; release, as of a claim. 
Not energetic or exact in duty or business; not careful or prompt in fulfilling engagements; negligent; careless; tardy; behindhand; lagging; slack; hence, lacking earnestness or activity; languid; slow. Thou never wast remiss, I bear thee witness. Milton. These nervous, bold; those languid and remiss. Roscommon. Its motion becomes more languid and remiss. Woodward. 
The act of being remiss; inefficiency; failure. [Obs.] "Remisses of laws." Puttenham. 
To transmit or send, esp. to a distance, as money in payment of a demand, account, draft, etc.; as, he remitted the amount by mail. 
The act of remitting, or the state of being remitted; remission. Disavowing the remitment of Claudius. Milton. 
To mix again or repeatedly. 
Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Echeneis, Remora, and allied genera. Called also sucking fish. 
To excite to remorse; to rebuke. [Obs.] Skelton. 
To feel remorse. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 
Separated by intervals greater than usual. -- Re*mote"ly, adv. -- Re*mote"ness, n. 
To change place in any manner, or to make a change in place; to move or go from one residence, position, or place to another. Till Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane, I can not taint with fear. Shak. 
The act of resetting a horse's shoe. Swift. 
To remove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Renne. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A run. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to the kidneys; in the region of the kidneys. Renal calculus (Med.), a concretion formed in the excretory passages of the kidney. -- Renal capsules or glands, the suprarenal capsules. See under Capsule. -- Renal casts, Renal colic. (Med.) See under Cast, and Colic. 
To give a new name to. 
A fox; -- so called in fables or familiar tales, and in poetry. [Written also reynard.] 
Born again; regenerate; renewed. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 
To deny; to disown. [Obs.] 
To be rent or torn; to become parted; to sepparate; to split. Jer. Taylor. 
One who rends. 
To pass; to run; -- said of the passage of a rope through a block, eyelet, etc.; as, a rope renders well, that is, passes freely; also, to yield or give way. Totten. 
Capable of being rendered. 
To deny; to disown. [Obs.] Shak. All Europe high (all sorts of rights reneged) Against the trith and thee unholy leagued. Sylvester. 
To revoke. [R.] 
To make new spiritually; to regenerate. Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Rom. xii. 2. 
To become new, or as new; to grow or begin again. 
To deney; to reject; to renounce. [Obs.] For he made every man reneye his law. Chaucer. 
The act of rebuilding a nest. 
To plunder; -- only in the phrase "to rape and renne." See under Rap, v. t., to snatch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To run. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A runner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A name of many different kinds of apples. Cf. Reinette. Mortimer. 
The inner, or mucous, membrance of the fourth stomach of the calf, or other young ruminant; also, an infusion or preparation of it, used for coagulating milk. [Written also runnet.] Cheese rennet. (Bot.) See under Cheese. -- Rennet ferment (Physiol. Chem.), a ferment, present in rennet and in variable quantity in the gastric juice of most animals, which has the power of curdling milk. The ferment presumably acts by changing the casein of milk from a soluble to an insoluble form. -- Rennet stomach (Anat.), the fourth stomach, or abomasum, of ruminants. 
To make famous; to give renown to. [Obs.] For joi to hear me so renown his son. Chapman. The bard whom pilfered pastorals renown. Pope. 
To rant. [R. & Obs.] Hudibras. 
imp. & p. p. of Rend. 
To tear. See Rend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A certain periodical profit, whether in money, provisions, chattels, or labor, issuing out of lands and tenements in payment for the use; commonly, a certain pecuniary sum agreed upon between a tenant and his landlord, paid at fixed intervals by the lessee to the lessor, for the use of land or its appendages; as, rent for a farm, a house, a park, etc. 
To be leased, or let for rent; as, an estate rents for five hundred dollars a year. 
In France, interest payable by government on indebtedness; the bonds, shares, stocks, etc.,, which represent government indebtedness. 
One who rents or leases an estate; -- usually said of a lessee or tenant. 
One who renters. 
To send back. [Obs.] "Not dismissing or renvoying her." Bacon. 
A sending back. [Obs.] 
To open again. 
A fabric made of silk or wool, or of silk and wool, and having a transversely corded or ribbed surface. 
Formed with a surface closely corded, or ribbed transversely; - - applied to textile fabrics of silk or wool; as, rep silk. 
To pace again; to walk over again in a contrary direction. 
To pack a second time or anew; as, to repack beef; to repack a trunk. 
imp. & p. p. of Repay. 
Reparable. Gauden. 
Having a slightly undulating margin; -- said of leaves. 
To pass again; to pass or travel over in the opposite direction; to pass a second time; as, to repass a bridge or a river; to repass the sea. 
To pass or go back; to move back; as, troops passing and repassing before our eyes. 
To supply food to; to feast; to take food. [Obs.] "Repast them with my blood." Shak. He then, also, as before, left arbitrary the dieting and repasting of our minds. Milton. 
Capable of being, or proper to be , repaid; due; as, a loan repayable in ten days; services repayable in kind. 
The quality or state of being repealable. 
To repay or refund (an excess received). To repeat one's self, to do or say what one has already done or said. -- To repeat signals, to make the same signals again; specifically, to communicate, by repeating them, the signals shown at headquarters. 
A mark, or series of dots, placed before and after, or often only at the end of, a passage to be repeated in performance. 
To act with force in opposition to force impressed; to exercise repulsion. 
Prostrate and rooting; -- said of stems. Gray. 
To be sorry for sin as morally evil, and to seek forgiveness; to cease to love and practice sin. Except ye repent, ye shall likewise perish. Luke xii. 3. 
The act of repenting, or the state of being penitent; sorrow for what one has done or omitted to do; especially, contrition for sin. Chaucer. Godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation. 2. Cor. vii. 20. Repentance is a change of mind, or a conversion from sin to God. Hammond. Repentance is the relinquishment of any practice from the conviction that it has offended God. Sorrow, fear, and anxiety are properly not parts, but adjuncts, of repentance; yet they are too closely connected with it to be easily separated. Rambler. 
Vexation; mortification. [Obs.] Shak. 
Any edible sea urchin. [Alaska] 
The framework of some pods, as the cress, which remains after the valves drop off. Gray. 
To answer a defendant's plea. 
To return for an answer. Milton. Lords, vouchsafe To give me hearing what I shall reply. Shak. 
That which is said, written, or done in answer to what is said, written, or done by another; an answer; a response. 
To replace. R. Baillie. 
To return or present as the result of an examination or consideration of any matter officially referred; as, the committee reported the bill witth amendments, or reported a new bill, or reported the results of an inquiry. 
Capable or admitting of being reported. 
A rest; a pause. 
To pour again. 
To fight against; to oppose; to resist. [R.] Stubbornly he did repugn the truth. Shak. 
To hold in thought; to account; to estimate; to hold; to think; to reckon. Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your sight Job xviii. 3. The king your father was reputed for A prince most prudent. Shak. 
In common opinion or estimation; by repute. 
The man-eater, or white shark (Carcharodon carcharias); -- so called on account of its causing requiems to be sung. 
A thing; the particular thing; a matter; a point. Res gestæ Etym: [L., things done] (Law), the facts which form the environment of a litigated issue. Wharton. -- Res judicata [L.] (Law), a thing adjudicated; a matter no longer open to controversy. 
To sail again; also, to sail back, as to a former port. 
A sale at second hand, or at retail; also, a second sale. Bacon. 
To saw again; specifically, to saw a balk, or a timber, which has already been squared, into dimension lumber, as joists, boards, etc. 
To ransom; to release; to rescue. [Obs.] Howell. 
Ransom; release. [Obs.] 
To free or deliver from any confinement, violence, danger, or evil; to liberate from actual restraint; to remove or withdraw from a state of exposure to evil; as, to rescue a prisoner from the enemy; to rescue seamen from destruction. Had I been seized by a hungry lion, I would have been a breakfast to the best, Rather than have false Proteus rescue me. Shak. 
Without rescue or release. 
To shake; to quake; to tremble. [Obs.] "It made all the gates for to rese." Chaucer. 
A system of lines forming small squares of standard size, which is photographed, by a separate exposure, on the same plate with star images to facilitate measurements, detect changes of the film, etc. (b) In lace, a ground or foundation of regular meshes, like network. 
To cut or pare off; to remove by cutting. 
A genus of plants, the type of which is mignonette. 
To seek again. J. Barlow. 
To sell again; to sell what has been bought or sold; to retail. 
To send on from an intermediate station by means of a repeater. 
One who resents. Sir H. Wotton. 
To set again; as, to reset type; to reset copy; to reset a diamond. 
That which is reset; matter set up again. 
The receiving of stolen goods, or harboring an outlaw. Jamieson. 
To harbor or secrete; to hide, as stolen goods or a criminal. We shall see if an English hound is to harbor and reset the Southrons here. Sir. W. Scott. 
To ship again; to put on board of a vessel a second time; to send on a second voyage; as, to reship bonded merchandise. 
To engage one's self again for service on board of a vessel after having been discharged. 
The residing of an incumbent on his benefice; -- opposed to nonresidence. 
Resignation. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 
To start back; to recoil; to recede from a purpose. J. Ellis. 
Any one of a class of yellowish brown solid inflammable substances, of vegetable origin, which are nonconductors of electricity, have a vitreous fracture, and are soluble in ether, alcohol, and essential oils, but not in water; specif., pine resin (see Rosin). 
Like resin; resinous. 
To make opposition. Shak. 
A substance used to prevent a color or mordant from fixing on those parts to which it has been applied, either by acting machanically in preventing the color, etc., from reaching the cloth, or chemically in changing the color so as to render it incapable of fixing itself in the fibers.. The pastes prepared for this purpose are called resist pastes. F. C. Calvert. 
To swallow up. Now lifted by the tide, and now resorbed. Young. 
Active power or movement; spring. [A Gallicism] [Obs.] Some . . . know the resorts and falls of business that can not sink into the main of it. Bacon. 
One who resorts; a frequenter. 
Reason. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To resound. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To sow again. Bacon. 
To resound. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To arrest. [Obs.] 
A projection from the right side of the cuirass, serving to support the lance. Their visors closed, their lances in the rest. Dryden. 
A surplus held as a reserved fund by a bank to equalize its dividends, etc.; in the Bank of England, the balance of assets above liabilities. [Eng.] 
To be left; to remain; to continue to be. The affairs of men rest still uncertain. Shak. 
A European leguminous plant (Ononis arvensis) with long, tough roots. 
Disposed to rest; indisposed toexercton; sluggish; also, restive. [Obs.] Burton. Where the master is too resty or too rich to say his own prayers. Milton. 
The act of resulting; that which results; a result. Donne. 
A summing up; a condensed statement; an abridgment or brief recapitulation. The exellent little résumé thereof in Dr. Landsborough's book. C. Kingsley. 
To summon again. 
See Aret. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To prepare for use, as flax, by separating the fibers from the woody part by process of soaking, macerating, and other treatment. Ure. 
The sale of commodities in small quantities or parcels; -- opposed to wholesale; sometimes, the sale of commodities at second hand. 
Done at retail; engaged in retailing commodities; as a retail trade; a retail grocer. 
One who retails anything; as, a retailer of merchandise; a retailer of gossip. 
Capable of being retained. 
One who takes again what has been taken; a recaptor. Kent. 
To stay back. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne. 
Retardation; delay. Retard, or Age, of the tide, the interval between the transit of the moon at which a tide originates and the appearance of the tide itself. It is found, in general, that any particular tide is not principally due to the moon's transit immediatelly proceeding, but to a transit which has occured some time before, and which is said to correspond to it. The retard of the tide is thus distinguished from the lunitidal interval. See under Retardation. rHam. Nav. Encyc. 
To make an effort to vomit; to strain, as in vomiting. [Written also reach.] Beloved Julia, hear me still beseeching! (Here he grew inarticulate with retching.) Byron. 
To care for; to heed; to reck. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A net or network; a plexus; particularly, a network of blood vessels or nerves, or a part resembling a network. 
To tell again. 
A white crystalline hydrocarbon, polymeric with benzene. It is extracted from pine tar, and is also found in certain fossil resins. 
That which is retained. Hickok. 
To annual, as orders. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket. 
A rhetorician; a careful writer. [Obs.] If a rethor couthe fair endite. Chaucer. 
The delicate membrane by which the back part of the globe of the eye is lined, and in which the fibers of the optic nerve terminate. See Eye. 
A call sounded on a bugle, announcing to skirmishers that they are to retire, or fall back. 
imp. & p. p. of Retell. 
To return an argument or a charge; to make a severe reply. Pope. 
A vessel in which substances are subjected to distillation or decomposition by heat. It is made of different forms and materials for different uses, as a bulb of glass with a curved beak to enter a receiver for general chemical operations, or a cylinder or semicylinder of cast iron for the manufacture of gas in gas works. Tubulated retort (Chem.), a retort having a tubulure for the introduction or removal of the substances which are to be acted upon. 
To toss back or again. 
To trim again. 
To try (esp. judicially) a second time; as, to retry a case; to retry an accused person. 
See Aret. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To blunt; to turn, as an edge; figuratively, to cause to be obtuse or dull; as, to retund confidence. Ray. Cudworth. 
To bat (the ball) back over the net. 
The continuation in a different direction, most often at a right angle, of a building, face of a building, or any member, as a molding or mold; -- applied to the shorter in contradistinction to the longer; thus, a facade of sixty feet east and west has a return of twenty feet north and south. 
Having the end rounded and slightly indented; as, a retuse leaf. 
Rule. [Obs.] 
Realm. [Obs.] 
To urge again. 
To vamp again; hence, topatch up; to reconstruct. 
To reave. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An officer, steward, or governor. [Usually written reeve.] [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
The side of an opening for a window, doorway, or the like, between the door frame or window frame and the outer surface of the wall; or, where the opening is not filled with a door, etc., the whole thickness of the wall; the jamb. [Written also revel.] 
See Reveal. [R.] 
A feast with loose and noisy jollity; riotous festivity or merrymaking; a carousal. This day in mirth and revel to dispend. Chaucer. Some men ruin . . . their bodies by incessant revels. Rambler. Master of the revels, Revel master. Same as Lord of misrule, under Lord. 
To draw back; to retract. [Obs.] Harvey. 
To echo. [Obs.] Shak. 
To regard with reverence, or profound respect and affection, mingled with awe or fear; to venerate; to reverence; to honor in estimation. Marcus Aurelius, whom he rather revered as his father than treated as his partner in the empire. Addison. 
A part turned or folded back so as to show the inside, or a piece put on in imitation of such a part, as the lapel of a coat. 
To change back. See Revert, v. i. To revert a series (Alg.), to treat a series, as y = a + bx + cx2 + etc., where one variable y is expressed in powers of a second variable x, so as to find therefrom the second variable x, expressed in a series arranged in powers of y. 
To return to the proprietor after the termination of a particular estate granted by him. 
One who, or that which, reverts. An active promoter in making the East Saxons converts, or rather reverts, to the faith. Fuller. 
Same as Reverie. 
To take effect or vest again, as a title; to revert to former owner; as, the title or right revels in A after alienation. 
To face, as an embankment, with masonry, wood, or other material. 
To reconquer. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
To meet a wager on, as on the taking of a trick, with a higher wager. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To look back; to make a review. 
The judicial examination of the proceedings of a lower court by a higher. 
To address or abuse with opprobrious and contemptuous language; to reproach. "And did not she herself revile me there" Shak. Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. 1 Pet. ii. 23. 
Reproach; reviling. [Obs.] The gracious Judge, without revile, replied. Milton. 
To compare (a proof) with a previous proof of the same matter, and mark again such errors as have not been corrected in the type. 
A second proof sheet; a proof sheet taken after the first or a subsequent correction. 
To recover its natural or metallic state, as a metal. 
To restore or reduce to its natural or metallic state; as, to revive a metal after calcination. 
To fail to follow suit when holding a card of the suit led, in violation of the rule of the game; to renege. Hoyle. 
The act of revoking. She [Sarah Battle] never made a revoke. Lamb. 
One who revolts. 
A row. [Obs.] Chaucer. "A rew of sundry colored stones." Chapman. 
To wake again. 
To give in return, whether good or evil; -- commonly in a good sense; to requite; to recompense; to repay; to compensate. After the deed that is done, one doom shall reward, Mercy or no mercy as truth will accord. Piers Plowman. Thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil. 1 Sam. xxiv. 17. I will render vengeance to mine enemies, and will reward them that hate me. Deut. xxxii. 41. God rewards those that have made use of the single talent. Hammond. 
Compensation or remuneration for services; a sum of money paid or taken for doing, or forbearing to do, some act. Burrill. 
Tu rue. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A gunlock. [R.] 
Rueful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To win again, or win back. The Palatinate was not worth the rewinning. Fuller. 
Rule. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Realm. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
To write again. Young. 
Ruth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A king. To play rex, to play the king; to domineer. [Obs.] 
Rain or rein. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To raise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To go on a military expedition. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The continuation of the seed stalk along the side of an anatropous ovule or seed, forming a ridge or seam. [Written also raphe.] Gray. 
The ramie or grass-cloth plant. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass. 
Any one of three species of large South American ostrichlike birds of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia. Called also the American ostrich. 
A suborder of struthious birds including the rheas. 
Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called chrysophanic acid) found in rhubarb (Rheum). [Obsoles.] 
Chrysophanic acid. 
A monkey; the bhunder. 
Same as Rhætic. 
A rhetorician. [Obs.] Hammond. 
A genus of plants. See Rhubarb. 
A serous or mucous discharge, especially one from the eves or nose. I have a rheum in mine eyes too. Shak. Salt rheum. (Med.) See Salt rheum, in the Vocab. 
Of or pertaining to rheum; abounding in, or causing, rheum; affected with rheum. His head and rheumy eyes distill in showers. Dryden. And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air To add unto his sickness. Shak. 
See Rhyme. [Obs.] 
Og or pertaining to the nose or olfactory organs. 
A water course; a ditch. [Written also rean.] [Prov. Eng.] Macaulay. 
Gold and silver, or money. [Cant] W. Wagstaffe. As long as the rhino lasted. Marryat. 
See 1st Rob. 
Of or pertaining to rhodium; containing rhodium. 
An equilateral parallelogram, or quadrilateral figure whose sides are equal and the opposite sides parallel. The angles may be unequal, two being obtuse and two acute, as in the cut, or the angles may be equal, in which case it is usually called a square. 
A line which crosses successive meridians at a constant angle; -- called also rhumb line, and loxodromic curve. See Loxodromic. To sail on a rhumb, to sail continuously on one course, following a rhumb line. 
A genus of shrubs and small treets. See Sumac. 
A mixtire of caustic lime and orpiment, or tersulphide of arsenic, -- used in the depilation of hides. Knight. 
Correspondence of sound in the terminating words or syllables of two or more verses, one succeeding another immediately or at no great distance. The words or syllables so used must not begin with the same consonant, or if one begins with a vowel the other must begin with a consonant. The vowel sounds and accents must be the same, as also the sounds of the final consonants if there be any. For rhyme with reason may dispense, And sound has right to govern sense. Prior. 
Destitute of rhyme. Bp. Hall. 
One who makes rhymes; a versifier; -- generally in contempt; a poor poet; a poetaster. This would make them soon perceive what despicaple creatures our common rhymers and playwriters be. Milton. 
Pertaining to rhyme. 
Movement in musical time, with periodical recurrence of accent; the measured beat or pulse which marks the character and expression of the music; symmetry of movement and accent. Moore (Encyc. ) 
A Spanish coin. See Real. [Obs.] 
Royal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A gold coin formerly current in England, of the value of ten shillings sterling in the reign of Henry VI., and of fifteen shillings in the reign of Elizabeth. [Spelt also ryal.] Brande & C. 
Laughing; laughable; exciting gayety; gay; merry; delightful to the view, as a landscape. In such cases the sublimity must be drawn from the other sources, with a strict caution, howewer, against anything light and riant. Burke. 
One of the curved bones attached to the vertebral column and supporting the lateral walls of the thorax. 
A low, vulgar, brutal, foul-mouthed wretch; a lewd fellow. Spenser. Pope. Ribald was almost a class name in the feudal system . . . He was his patron's parasite, bulldog, and tool . . . It is not to be wondered at that the word rapidly became a synonym for everything ruffianly and brutal. Earle. 
Low; base; mean; filthy; obscene. The busy day, Waked by the lark, hath roused the ribald crows. Shak. 
See Ribbon. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
See Ribbon. Riband jasper (Min.), a variety of jasper having stripes of different colors, as red and green. 
See Rib-band. Totten. 
A ribald. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 
Intercalated with slate; -- said of a seam of coal. Raymond. 
Same as Rib-band. 
To adorn with, or as with, ribbons; to mark with stripes resembling ribbons. 
A genus of shrubs including gooseberries and currants of many kinds. 
A small threestringed viol; a rebec. Moore (Encyc. of Music). All can be play on gittern or ribible. Chaucer. 
A well-known cereal grass (Oryza sativa) and its seed. This plant is extensively cultivated in warm climates, and the grain forms a large portion of the food of the inhabitants. In America it grows chiefly on low, moist land, which can be overflowed. Ant rice. (Bot.) See under Ant. -- French rice. (Bot.) See Amelcorn. -- Indian rice., a tall reedlike water grass (Zizania aquatica), bearing panicles of a long, slender grain, much used for food by North American Indians. It is common in shallow water in the Northern States. Called also water oat, Canadian wild rice, etc. -- Mountain rice, any species of an American genus (Oryzopsis) of grasses, somewhat resembling rice. -- Rice bunting. (Zoöl.) Same as Ricebird. -- Rice hen (Zoöl.), the Florida gallinule. -- Rice mouse (Zoöl.), a large dark-colored field mouse (Calomys palistris) of the Southern United States. -- Rice paper, a kind of thin, delicate paper, brought from China, - - used for painting upon, and for the manufacture of fancy articles. It is made by cutting the pith of a large herb (Fatsia papyrifera, related to the ginseng) into one roll or sheet, which is flattened out under pressure. Called also pith paper. -- Rice troupial (Zoöl.), the bobolink. -- Rice water, a drink for invalids made by boiling a small quantity of rice in water. -- Rice-water discharge (Med.), a liquid, resembling rice water in appearance, which is vomited, and discharged from the bowels, in cholera. -- Rice weevil (Zoöl.), a small beetle (Calandra, or Sitophilus, oryzæ) which destroys rice, wheat, and Indian corn by eating out the interior; -- called also black weevil. 
To enrich. [Obs.] Gower. 
Wealth; riches. See the Note under Riches. [Obs.] Some man desireth for to have richesse. Chaucer. The richesse of all heavenly grace. Spenser. 
In a rich manner. 
A stack or pile, as of grain, straw, or hay, in the open air, usually protected from wet with thatching. Golden clusters of beehive ricks, rising at intervals beyond the hedgerows. G. Eliot. 
To heap up in ricks, as hay, etc. 
A stout pole for use in making a rick, or for a spar to a boat. 
Of or pertaining to the rictus; as, rictal bristles. 
The gape of the mouth, as of birds; -- often resricted to the corners of the mouth. 
imp. & p. p. of Ride, v. i. [Archaic] He rid to the end of the village, where he alighted. Thackeray. 
Suitable for riding; as, a ridable horse; a ridable road. 
p. p. of Ride. 
One who, or that which, rids. 
Something proposed to be solved by guessing or conjecture; a puzzling question; an ambiguous proposition; an enigma; hence, anything ambiguous or puzzling. To wring from me, and tell to them, my secret, That solved the riddle which I had proposed. Milton. 'T was a strange riddle of a lady. Hudibras. 
To explain; to solve; to unriddle. Riddle me this, and guess him if you can. Dryden. 
To speak ambiguously or enigmatically. "Lysander riddels very prettily." Shak. 
To overlap (each other); -- said of bones or fractured fragments. To ride a hobby, to have some favorite occupation or subject of talk. -- To ride and tie, to take turn with another in labor and rest; -- from the expedient adopted by two persons with one horse, one of whom rides the animal a certain distance, and then ties him for the use of the other, who is coming up on foot. Fielding. -- To ride down. (a) To ride over; to trample down in riding; to overthrow by riding against; as, to ride down an enemy. (b) (Naut.) To bear down, as on a halyard when hoisting a sail. -- To ride out (Naut.), to keep safe afloat during (a storm) while riding at anchor or when hove to on the open sea; as, to ride out the gale. to ride the lightning, (Colloq.) to be executed by electrocution in an electric chair. 
A small mound of earth; ground slightly elevated; a small ridge. 
imp. pl. & p. p. of Ride. Chaucer. 
Laughing. [R.] Thackeray. 
A problem of more than usual difficulty added to another on an examination paper. 
The intersection of two surface forming a salient angle, especially the angle at the top between the opposite slopes or sides of a roof or a vault. 
The part of a harness which passes over the saddle, and supports the shafts of a cart; -- called also ridgerope, and ridger. Halliwell. 
Same as Ridgelling. 
Having a ridge or ridges; rising in a ridge. "Lifted on a ridgy wave." Pope. 
One of the three jurisdictions into which the county of York, in England, is divided; -- formerly under the government of reeve. They are called the North, the East, and the West, Riding. Blackstone. 
A favorite Italian public entertainment, consisting of music and dancing, -- held generally on fast eves. Brande & C. There are to be ridottos at guinea tickets. Walpole. 
See Rye. [Obs.] Holland. Rie grass. (Bot.) (a) A kind of wild barley (Hordeum pratense). Dr. Prior. (b) Ray grass. Dr. Prior. 
Robbery. [Obs. or Scot.] 
A trough or sluice having cleats, grooves, or steps across the bottom for holding quicksilver and catching particles of gold when auriferous earth is washed; also, one of the cleats, grooves, or steps in such a trough. Also called ripple. 
A body of soldiers armed with rifles. 
Any one of several species of beautiful birds of Australia and New Guinea, of the genera Ptiloris and Craspidophora, allied to the paradise birds. 
One who rifles; a robber. 
p. p. of Rive. Spenser. 
To cleave; to rive; to split; as, to rift an oak or a rock; to rift the clouds. Longfellow. To dwell these rifted rocks between. Wordsworth. 
A rafter. [Obs.] Holland. 
A ridge. [Prov. or Scott.] 
The peculiar fitting in shape, number, and arrangement of sails and masts, by which different types of vessels are distinguished; as, schooner rig, ship rig, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. 
To play the wanton; to act in an unbecoming manner; to play tricks. "Rigging and rifling all ways." Chapman. 
To make free with; hence, to steal; to pilfer. [Obs. or Prov.] Tusser. To rig the market (Stock Exchange), to raise or lower market prices, as by some fraud or trick. [Cant] 
A fixed star of the first magnitude in the left foot of the constellation Orion. [Written also Regel.] 
DRess; tackle; especially (Naut.), the ropes, chains, etc., that support the masts and spars of a vessel, and serve as purchases for adjusting the sails, etc. See Illustr. of Ship and Sails. Running rigging (Naut.), all those ropes used in bracing the yards, making and shortening sail, etc., such as braces, sheets, halyards, clew lines, and the like. -- Standing rigging (Naut.), the shrouds and stays. 
See Wriggle. 
The European lance fish. [Prov. Eng.] 
Hence, to regain an upright position, as a ship or boat, after careening. 
In a rigid manner; stiffly. 
See Reglet. 
A circle; hence, a diadem. [Obs.] Shak. 
A musical instrument formerly in use, consisting of several sticks bound together, but separated by beads, and played with a stick with a ball at its end. Moore (Encyc. of Music. ). 
A sense of chilliness, with contraction of the skin; a convulsive shuddering or tremor, as in the chill preceeding a fever. Rigor caloris ( Etym: [L., rigor of heat] (Physiol.), a form of rigor mortis induced by heat, as when the muscle of a mammal is heated to about 50ºC. -- Rigor mortis ( Etym: [L. , rigor of death] , death stiffening; the rigidity of the muscles that occurs at death and lasts till decomposition sets in. It is due to the formation of myosin by the coagulation of the contents of the individual muscle fibers. 
See 1st Rigor, 2. 
Same as Relief, n.,5. 
See Rille. 
To run a small stream. [R.] Prior. 
One of certain narrow, crooked valleys seen, by aid of the telescope, on the surface of the moon. 
A little rill. Burton. 
Roily. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 
To furnish with a rim; to border. 
A narrow and elongated aperture; a cleft; a fissure. 
A rent or long aperture; a chink; a fissure; a crack. Sir T. Browne. 
White frost; hoarfrost; congealed dew or vapor. The trees were now covered with rime. De Quincey. 
To freeze or congeal into hoarfrost. 
A step or round of a ladder; a rung. 
Rhyme. See Rhyme. Coleridge. Landor. 
To rhyme. See Rhyme. 
A rhymer; a versifier. 
A tool for shaping the rimes of a ladder. 
To compose in rhyme; to versify. [Obs.] [Lays] rimeyed in their first Breton tongue. Chaucer. 
An implement for cutting, trimming, or ornamenting the rim of anything, as the edges of pies, etc.; also, a reamer. Knight. 
Having long and nearly parallel clefts or chinks, like those in the bark of trees. 
Rimose. 
A fold or wrinkle. See Rumple. 
To rumple; to wrinkle. 
Abounding with rime; frosty. 
An interior corner; a nook; hence, an angular recess or hollow bend in a mountain, river, cliff, or the like. [Western & Southern U. S.] D. S. Jordan. 
The external covering or coat, as of flesh, fruit, trees, etc.; skin; hide; bark; peel; shell. Thou canst not touch the freedom of my mind With all thy charms, although this corporal rind Thou hast immanacled. Milton. Sweetest nurind. Shak. 
To remove the rind of; to bark. [R.] 
A small water course or gutter. Ash. 
Having a rind or skin. Ash. 
See Rind. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Having a rind [Obs.] Milton. 
A circle, or a circular line, or anything in the form of a circular line or hoop. 
To make a ring around by cutting away the bark; to girdle; as, to ring branches or roots. 
To rise in the air spirally. 
Having the lips widely separated and gaping like an open mouth; as a ringent bilabiate corolla. 
A crowbar. Simmonds. 
A horse that is not entitled to take part in a race, but is fraudulently got into it. 
One who skates at a rink. [Colloq.] 
The act of rinsing. 
One who, or that which, rinses. 
The tumultuous disturbance of the public peace by an unlawful assembly of three or more persons in the execution of some private object. To run riot, to act wantonly or without restraint. 
To disturb the peace; to raise an uproar or sedition. See Riot, n., 3. Johnson. 
To spend or pass in riot. [He] had rioted his life out. Tennyson. 
One who engages in a riot. See Riot, n., 3. 
The act or practice of rioting; riot. "Electioneering riotry." Walpole. 
A wicker fish basket. 
A term applied to a mean, worthless thing or person, as to a scamp, a debauchee, or a prostitute, or a worn-out horse. [Slang.] 
The bank of a river. [Obs.] 
To ripen; to grow ripe. [Obs.] 
To mature; to ripen. [Obs.] Shak. 
Maturely; at the fit time. Shak. 
The state or quality of being ripe; maturity;; completeness; perfection; as, the ripeness of grain; ripeness of manhood; ripeness of judgment. Time, which made them their fame outlive, To Cowley scarce did ripeness give. Denham. 
An act or a bill conferring upon a chief executive, as a governor or mayor, large powers of appointment and removal of heads of departments or other subordinate officials. [Polit. Cant, U. S.] 
An implement, with teeth like those of a comb, for removing the seeds and seed vessels from flax, broom corn, etc. 
To fret or dimple, as the surface of running water; to cover with small waves or undulations; as, the breeze rippled the lake. 
HAving ripple marks. 
Having ripples; as, ripply water; hence, resembling the sound of rippling water; as, ripply laughter; a ripply cove. Keats. 
A foundation or sustaining wall of stones thrown together without order, as in deep water or on a soft bottom. 
To form a riprap in or upon. 
A handsaw with coarse teeth which have but a slight set, used for cutting wood in the direction of the fiber; -- called also ripping saw. 
A bough or branch; a twig. [Obs.] As white as is the blossom upon the ris. Chaucer. 
To be lifted, or to admit of being lifted, from the imposing stone without dropping any of the type; -- said of a form. 
A shaft excavated from below upward. 
A rush (the plant). [Obs.] Chaucer. 
More than; exceeding; upwards of; as, a horse rising six years of age. [Colloq. & Low, U.S.] 
Hazard of loss; liabillity to loss in property. To run a risk, to incur hazard; to encounter danger. 
One who risks or hazards. Hudibras. 
Attended with risk or danger; hazardous. "A risky matter." W. Collins. Generalization are always risky. Lowell. 
imp. of Rise. B. Jonson. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Rise, contracted from riseth. Chaucer. 
3d pers. ssing. pres. of Ride, contracted from rideth. Chaucer. 
The act of performing divine or solemn service, as established by law, precept, or custom; a formal act of religion or other solemn duty; a solemn observance; a ceremony; as, the rites of freemasonry. He looked with indifference on rites, names, and forms of ecclesiastical polity. Macaulay. 
Of or pertaining to rites or ritual; as, ritual service or sacrifices; the ritual law. 
One skilled un, or attached to, a ritual; one who advocates or practices ritualism. 
A duty paid to the crown for the passage of vessels on certain rivers. 
Having the same pretensions or claims; standing in competition for superiority; as, rival lovers; rival claims or pretensions. The strenuous conflicts and alternate victories of two rival confederacies of statesmen. Macaulay. 
To be in rivalry. [Obs.] Shak. 
To rend asunder by force; to split; to cleave; as, to rive timber for rails or shingles. I shall ryve him through the sides twain. Chaucer. The scolding winds have rived the knotty oaks. Shak. Brutus hath rived my heart. Shak. 
To be split or rent asunder. Freestone rives, splits, and breaks in any direction. Woodward. 
A place torn; a rent; a rift. [Prov. Eng.] 
To contract into wrinkles; to shrivel; to shrink; as, riveled fruit; riveled flowers. [Obs.] Pope. "Riveled parchments." Walpole. 
A wrinkle; a rimple. [Obs.] Holland. 
p. p. & a. from Rive. 
One who rives or splits. 
To hawk by the side of a river; to fly hawks at river fowl. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
Having rivers; as, a rivery country. Drayton. 
A metallic pin with a head, used for uniting two plates or pieces of material together, by passing it through them and then beating or pressing down the point so that it shall spread out and form a second head; a pin or bolt headed or clinched at both ends. With busy hammers closing rivets up. Shak. Rivet joint, or Riveted joint, a joint between two or more pieces secured by rivets. 
One who rivets. 
Marked with sinuate and irregular furrows. 
To dry in the sun; as, rizzared haddock. [Scot.] 
A cockroach. 
A convex curve or arch cut in the edge of a sail to prevent chafing, or to secure a better fit. As sound as a roach Etym: [roach perhaps being a corruption of a F. roche a rock], perfectly sound. 
Having a back like that of roach; -- said of a horse whose back a convex instead of a concave curve. 
A place where ships may ride at anchor at some distance from the shore; a roadstead; -- often in the plural; as, Hampton Roads. Shak. 
To go from place to place without any certain purpose or direction; to rove; to wander. He roameth to the carpenter's house. Chaucer. Daphne roaming through a thorny wood. Shak. 
To range or wander over. And now wild beasts came forth the woods to roam. Milton. 
The act of roaming; a wandering; a ramble; as, he began his roam o'er hill amd dale. Milton. 
One who roams; a wanderer. 
To cry aloud; to proclaim loudly. This last action will roar thy infamy. Ford. 
The sound of roaring. Specifically: (a) The deep, loud cry of a wild beast; as, the roar of a lion. (b) The cry of one in pain, distress, anger, or the like. (c) A loud, continuous, and confused sound; as, the roar of a cannon, of the wind, or the waves; the roar of ocean. Arm! arm! it is, it is the cannon's opening roar! Byron. 
A horse subject to roaring. See Roaring, 2. 
To dissipate by heat the volatile parts of, as ores. 
That which is roasted; a piece of meat which has been roasted, or is suitable for being roasted. A fat swan loved he best of any roost [roast]. Chaucer. To rule the roast, to be at the head of affairs. "The new-made duke that rules the roast." Shak. 
Roasted; as, roast beef. 
The inspissated juice of ripe fruit, obtained by evaporation of the juice over a fire till it acquires the consistence of a sirup. It is sometimes mixed with honey or sugar. [Written also rhob, and rohob.] 
To take the property of (any one) from his person, or in his presence, feloniously, and against his will, by violence or by putting him in fear. 
To take that which belongs to another, without right or permission, esp. by violence. I am accursed to rob in that thief's company. Shak. 
See Roperand. 
One who robs; in law, one who feloniously takes goods or money from the person of another by violence or by putting him in fear. Some roving robber calling to his fellows. Milton. 
A kind of package in which pepper and other dry commodities are sometimes exported from the East Indies. The robbin of rice in Malabar weighs about 84 pounds. Simmonds. 
See Ropeband. 
To invest with a robe or robes; to dress; to array; as, fields robed with green. The sage Chaldeans robed in white appeared. Pope. Such was his power over the expression of his countenance, that he could in an instant shake off the sternness of winter, and robe it in the brightest smiles of spring. Wirt. 
See Herb Robert, under Herb. 
The act of putting on a robe. Robing room, a room where official robes are put on, as by judges, etc. 
The California white oak (Quercus lobata). 
Robust. [Obs. or Humorous] W. Irving. In Scotland they had handled the bishops in a more robustious manner. Milton. -- Ro*bus"tious*ly, adv. -- Ro*bus"tious*ness, n. 
A monstrous bird of Arabian mythology. [Written also rock, and rukh.] Brande & C. 
Rock. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A linen garment resembling the surplise, but with narrower sleeves, also without sleeves, worn by bishops, and by some other ecclesiastical dignitaries, in certain religious ceremonies. They see no difference between an idler with a hat and national cockade, and an idler in a cowl or in a rochet. Burke. 
The red gurnard, or gurnet. See Gurnard. 
See Roc. 
A distaff used in spinning; the staff or frame about which flax is arranged, and from which the thread is drawn in spinning. Chapman. Sad Clotho held the rocke, the whiles the thread By grisly Lachesis was spun with pain, That cruel Atropos eftsoon undid. Spenser. 
Any natural deposit forming a part of the earth's crust, whether consolidated or not, including sand, earth, clay, etc., when in natural beds. 
Formerly, a light, low, four-wheeled carriage, with standing top, open at the sides, but having waterproof curtains which could be let down when occasion required; now, a somewhat similar, but heavier, carriage, inclosed, except in front, and having a door at each side. 
Same as Rock shaft. Rocker arm (Mach.), an arm borne by a rock shaft. To be off one's rocker, to be insane. 
To rise straight up; said of birds; usually in the present participle or as an adjective. [Eng.] An old cock pheasant came rocketing over me. H. R. Haggard. 
The orange-colored pulp covering the seeds of the tropical plant Bixa Orellana, from which annotto is prepared. See Annoto. 
A florid style of ornamentation which prevailed in Europe in the latter part of the eighteenth century. 
Of or pertaining to the style called rococo; like rococo; florid; fantastic. 
Full of rods or twigs. 
Ruddy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Redness; complexion. [Obs.] "His rode was red." Chaucer. 
imp. of Ride. 
See Rood, the cross. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One of the Rodentia. 
A round-up. See Round-up. [Western U.S.] 
The gadwall. [Prov.Eng.] 
Ruddy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The ova or spawn of fishes and amphibians, especially when still inclosed in the ovarian membranes. Sometimes applied, loosely, to the sperm and the testes of the male. 
Filled with roe. 
A black flag with white skull and crossbones, formerly used by pirates; -- called also Jolly Roger. 
A vagrant; an idle, sturdy beggar; a vagabond; a tramp. 
To wander; to play the vagabond; to play knavish tricks. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To destroy (plants that do not come up to a required standard). 
Roguish. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 
An inspissated juice. See Rob. 
Royal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Turbid; as, roily water. 
See Royne. [Obs.] 
A scab; a scurf, or scurfy spot. [Obs.] 
See Aroint. 
See Roister. 
Parched Indian corn, pounded up and mixed with sugar; -- called also yokeage. [Local, U.S.] 
Misty; foggy; cloudy. [Prov. Eng.] Ray. 
A part, or character, performed by an actor in a drama; hence, a part of function taken or assumed by any one; as, he has now taken the rôle of philanthropist. Title rôle, the part, or character, which gives the title to a play, as the part of Hamlet in the play of that name. 
To apply (one line or surface) to another without slipping; to bring all the parts of (one line or surface) into successive contact with another, in suck manner that at every instant the parts that have been in contact are equal. 
The oscillating movement of a vessel from side to side, in sea way, as distinguished from the alternate rise and fall of bow and stern called pitching. 
One of series of long, heavy waves which roll in upon a coast, sometimes in calm weather. 
A small wagon used for the underground work of a mine. Tomlison. 
To move or play in a careless, swaggering manner, with a frolicsome air; to frolic; to sport; commonly in the form rollicking. [Colloq.] He described his friends as rollicking blades. T. Hook. 
See Rummage. [Obs.] Shak. 
Of or relating to modern Greece, and especially to its language. -- n. 
The calendar of the ancient Romans, from which our modern calendars are derived. It is said to have consisted originally of ten months, Martius, Aprilis, Maius, Junius, Quintilis, Sextilis, September, October, November, and December, having a total of 304 days. Numa added two months, Januarius at the beginning of the year, and Februarius at the end, making in all 355 days. He also ordered an intercalary month, Mercedinus, to be inserted every second year. Later the order of the months was changed so that January should come before February. Through abuse of power by the pontiffs to whose care it was committed, this calendar fell into confusion. It was replaced by the Julian calendar. In designating the days of the month, the Romans reckoned backward from three fixed points, the calends, the nones, and the ides. The calends were always the first day of the month. The ides fell on the 15th in March, May, July (Quintilis), and October, and on the 13th in other months. The nones came on the eighth day (the ninth, counting the ides) before the ides. Thus, Jan. 13 was called the ides of January, Jan. 12, the day before the ides, and Jan. 11, the third day before the ides (since the ides count as one), while Jan. 14 was the 19th day before the calends of February. 
A romaunt. [Obs.] 
See Romance,5. 
Rumble. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A method of notation for all spoken sounds, proposed by Mr. Sweet; -- so called because it is based on the common Roman-letter alphabet. It is like the palæotype of Mr. Ellis in the general plan, but simpler. 
Belonging or relating to Rome, or to the Roman Catholic Church; -- frequently used in a disparaging sense; as, the Romish church; the Romish religion, ritual, or ceremonies. 
A Roman Catholic. [R.] South. 
To play rudely and boisterously; to leap and frisk about in play. 
Inclined to romp; indulging in romps. A little romping girl from boarding school. W. Irving. 
Broken, as an ordinary; cut off, or broken at the top, as a chevron, a bend, or the like. 
See Croaker, n., 2. (a). [Texas] 
A kind of script in which the heavy strokes are nearly upright, giving the characters when taken together a round look. 
A small round tower erected at the foot of a bastion. [Obs.] 
A composition, vocal or instrumental, commonly of a lively, cheerful character, in which the first strain recurs after each of the other strains. "The Rondo-form was the earliest and most frequent definite mold for musical construction." Grove. 
imp. & p. p. of Ring. Chaucer. 
Rung (of a ladder). [Obs.] Chaucer. 
In Japan, under the feudal system, a samurai who had renounced his clan or who had been discharged or ostracized and had become a wanderer without a lord; an outcast; an outlaw. 
A runt. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The pallah. 
Rank in growth. [Prov.Eng.] 
The cover of any building, including the roofing (see Roofing) and all the materials and construction necessary to carry and maintain the same upon the walls or other uprights. In the case of a building with vaulted ceilings protected by an outer roof, some writers call the vault the roof, and the outer protection the roof mask. It is better, however, to consider the vault as the ceiling only, in cases where it has farther covering. 
One who puts on roofs. 
Having roofs. [R.] Dryden. 
Mist; fog. See Roke. [Obs.] 
To squat; to ruck. [Obs.] Shak. 
One of the four pieces placed on the corner squares of the board; a castle. 
A European bird (Corvus frugilegus) resembling the crow, but smaller. It is black, with purple and violet reflections. The base of the beak and the region around it are covered with a rough, scabrous skin, which in old birds is whitish. It is gregarious in its habits. The name is also applied to related Asiatic species. The rook . . . should be treated as the farmer's friend. Pennant. 
To cheat; to defraud by cheating. "A band of rooking officials." Milton. 
Misty; gloomy. [Obs.] Light thickens, and the crow Makes wing to the rooky wood. Shak. 
To occupy a room or rooms; to lodge; as, they arranged to room together. 
Spacious; roomy. [Obs.] No roomer harbour in the place. Chaucer. 
A lodger. [Colloq.] 
At a greater distance; farther off. [Obs.] Sir J. Harrington. 
Room; space. [Obs.] Drayton. 
Having ample room; spacious; large; as, a roomy mansion; a roomy deck. Dryden. 
Vermilion red; red. [R.] Her face was like the lily roon. J. R. Drake. 
See Roup. [Prov. Eng.] 
Roast. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Roust, v. t. 
The male of the domestic fowl; a cock. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To turn up or to dig out with the snout; as, the swine roots the earth. 
That factor of a quantity which when multiplied into itself will produce that quantity; thus, 3 is a root of 9, because 3 multiplied into itself produces 9; 3 is the cube root of 27. (e) (Mus.) The fundamental tone of any chord; the tone from whose harmonics, or overtones, a chord is composed. Busby. (f) The lowest place, position, or part. "Deep to the roots of hell." Milton. "The roots of the mountains." Southey. 
A mass of parenchym 
Having taken root; firmly implanted; fixed in the heart. "A rooted sorrow." Shak. -- Root"*ed*ly, adv. -- Root"ed*ness, n. 
One who, or that which, roots; one that tears up by the roots. 
Full of roots; as, rooty ground. 
The small intestines; as, the ropes of birds. Rope ladder, a ladder made of ropes. -- Rope mat., a mat made of cordage, or strands of old rope. -- Rope of sand, something of no cohession or fiber; a feeble union or tie; something not to be relied upon. -- Rope pump, a pump in which a rapidly running endless rope raises water by the momentum communicated to the water by its adhesion to the rope. -- Rope transmission (Mach.), a method of transmitting power, as between distant places, by means of endless ropes running over grooved pulleys. -- Rope's end, a piece of rope; especially, one used as a lash in inflicting punishment. -- To give one rope, to give one liberty or license; to let one go at will uncheked. 
To be formed into rope; to draw out or extend into a filament or thread, as by means of any glutinous or adhesive quality. Let us not hang like ropingicicles Upon our houses' thatch. Shak. 
A small piece of spun yarn or marline, used to fasten the head of the sail to the spar. [Written also roband, and robbin.] 
To punish with a rope's end. 
In a ropy manner; in a viscous or glutinous manner. 
Somewhat ropy. 
capable of being drawn into a thread, as a glutinous substance; stringy; viscous; tenacious; glutinous; as ropy sirup; ropy lees. 
A form of croquet modified for greater accuracy of play. The court has a wood border often faced with rubber, used as a cushion in bank shots. The balls are 3¼ in. in diameter, the cage (center arches or wickets) 3 3/8 in. wide, the other arches 3½ in. wide. 
To hit, as another's ball, with one's own ball. 
To hit another's ball with one's own. 
Of or pertaining to dew; consisting of dew; dewy. [R.] M. Green. 
Of or pertaining to dew; resembling dew; dewy. Roric figures (Physics), figures which appear upon a polished surface, as glass, when objects which have been near to, or in contact with, the surface are removed and the surface breathed upon; -- called also Moser's images. 
Dewy; bedewed. [R.] T. Granger. 
Dewy. [R.] And shook his wings with rory May-dew wet. Fairfax. 
A series of prayers (see Note below) arranged to be recited in order, on beads; also, a string of beads by which the prayers are counted. His idolized book, and the whole rosary of his prayers. Milton. 
Containing, or consisting of, dew; dewy. [R.] Bacon. 
imp. of Rise. 
A rose window. See Rose window, below. 
resembling a rose in smell or color. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 
Consisting of roses; rosy. [Obs.] 
A rosier; a rosebush. [Obs.] 
A place where roses are cultivated; a nursery of roses. See Rosary, 1. 
A red color used by painters. Peacham. 
Decorated with roses, or with the color of roses. 
A rosebush; roses, collectively. [Obs.] Crowned with a garland of sweet rosier. Spenser. 
In a rosy manner. M. Arnold. 
The hard, amber-colored resin left after distilling off the volatile oil of turpentine; colophony. Rosin oil, an oil obtained from the resin of the pine tree, -- used by painters and for lubricating machinery, etc. 
To rub with rosin, as musicians rub the bow of a violin. Or with the rosined bow torment the string. Gay. 
like rosin, or having its qualities. 
The rough, scaly matter on the surface of the bark of trees. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 
To divest of the ross, or rough, scaly surface; as, to ross bark. [Local, U.S.] 
Light land; rosland. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Mortimer. 
See Roust. [Scot.] Jemieson. 
same as Rostellum. 
A register or roll showing the order in which officers, enlisted men, companies, or regiments are called on to serve. 
See Rostrum, 2. 
Resembling a rose in color, form, or qualities; blooming; red; blushing; also, adorned with roses. A smile that glowed Celestial rosy-red, love's proper hue. Milton. While blooming youth and gay delight Sit thy rosy cheeks confessed. Prior. 
A disease or decay in fruits, leaves, or wood, supposed to be caused by minute fungi. See Bitter rot, Black rot, etc., below. 
A short-lived political club established in 1659 by J.Harrington to inculcate the democratic doctrine of election of the principal officers of the state by ballot, and the annual retirement of a portion of Parliament. 
A species of zither, played like a guitar, used in the Middle Ages in church music; -- written also rotta. 
Relating to wheels or to rotary motion; rotary. [R.] 
Turning, as a wheel on its axis; pertaining to, or resembling, the motion of a wheel on its axis; rotatory; as, rotary motion. Rotary engine, steam engine in which the continuous rotation of the shaft is produced by the direct action of the steam upon rotating devices which serve as pistons, instead of being derived from a reciprocating motion, as in the ordinary engine; a steam turbine; -- called also rotatory engine. -- Rotary pump, a pump in which the fluid is impelled by rotating devices which take the place of reciprocating buckets or pistons. -- Rotary shears, shears, as for cloth, metal, etc., in which revolving sharp-edged or sharp-cornered wheels do the cutting. -- Rotary valve, a valve acting by continuous or partial rotation, as in the four-way cock. 
Having the parts spreading out like a wheel; wheel-shaped; as, a rotate spicule or scale; a rotate corolla, i.e., a monopetalous corolla with a flattish border, and no tube or a very short one. 
Turned round, as a wheel; also, wheel-shaped; rotate. 
A very small arctic sea bird (Mergulus alle, or Alle alle) common on both coasts of the Atlantic in winter; -- called also little auk, dovekie, rotch, rotchie, and sea dove. 
A root. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A kind of guitar, the notes of which were produced by a small wheel or wheel-like arrangement; an instrument similar to the hurdy- gurdy. Well could he sing and play on a rote. Chaucer. extracting mistuned dirges from their harps, crowds, and rotes. Sir W. Scott. 
The noise produced by the surf of the sea dashing upon the shore. See Rut. 
A frequent repetition of forms of speech without attention to the meaning; mere repetition; as, to learn rules by rote. Swift. till he the first verse could [i. e., knew] all by rote. Chaucer. Thy love did read by rote, and could not spell. Shak. 
To learn or repeat by rote. [Obs.] Shak. 
To go out by rotation or succession; to rotate. [Obs.] Z. Grey. 
Bovine. -- n. 
A rudder. Rother nail, a nail with a very full head, used for fastening the rudder irons of ships; -- so called by shipwrights. 
The rotating part of a generator or motor. 
See Rota. 
Having rotted; putrid; decayed; as, a rotten apple; rotten meat. Hence: (a) Offensive to the smell; fetid; disgusting. You common cry or curs! whose breath I hate As reek of the rotten fens. Shak. 
The patella, or kneepan. 
orbicular, or nearly so. Gray. 
A rotunds. [Obs.] Burke. 
A roturier. [Obs.] Howell. 
To make rotten. [Obs.] Well bet is rotten apple out of hoard, Than that it roty all the remenant. Chaucer. 
A coin. See Ruble. 
See Ruche. 
One devoted to a life of sensual pleasure; a debauchee; a rake. 
A small wheel formerly fixed to the pan of firelocks for discharging them. Crabb. 
red. [R.] Rouge et noir ( Etym: [F., red and black], a game at cards in which persons play against the owner of the bank; -- so called because the table around which the players sit has certain compartments colored red and black, upon which the stakes are deposited. Hoyle. 
A red amorphous powder consisting of ferric oxide. It is used in polishing glass, metal, or gems, and as a cosmetic, etc. Called also crocus, jeweler's rouge, etc. 
To paint the face or cheeks with rouge. 
To tint with rouge; as, to rouge the face or the cheeks. 
In a rough manner; rudely; roughly. Sleeping rough on the trenches, and dying stubbornly in their boats. Sir W. Scott. 
One who roughcasts. 
imp. of Reach. 
imp. of Reck, to care. Chaucer. 
See 5th Ruck, and Roke. [Obs.] 
The handle by which the bed of a hand press, holding the form of type, etc., is run in under the platen and out again; -- sometimes applied to the whole apparatus by which the form is moved under the platen. 
A common hackney horse; a nag. [Obs.] he rode upon a rouncy as he could. Chaucer. 
To whisper. [obs.] Shak. Holland. The Bishop of Glasgow rounding in his ear, "Ye are not a wise man," . . . he rounded likewise to the bishop, and said, "Wherefore brought ye me here" Calderwood. 
Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, making the opening more or less round in shape; rounded; labialized; labial. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 11. 
A short vocal piece, resembling a catch in which three or four voices follow each other round in a species of canon in the unison. 
On every side of, so as to encompass or encircle; around; about; as, the people atood round him; to go round the city; to wind a cable round a windlass. The serpent Error twines round human hearts. Cowper. Round about, an emphatic form for round or about. "Moses . . . set them [The elders] round about the tabernacle." Num. xi. 24. -- To come round, to gain the consent of, or circumvent, (a person) by flattery or deception. [Colloq.] 
The quality of being roundabout; circuitousness. 
Round. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 
To cry or shout; hence, to sell by auction. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
Rising; -- applied to a bird in the attitude of rising; also, sometmes, to a bird in profile with wings addorsed. 
To pull or haul strongly and all together, as upon a rope, without the assistance of mechanical appliances. 
A stirrer in a copper for boiling wort. 
To rouse; to disturb; as, to roust one out. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 
A strong tide or current, especially in a narrow channel. [Written also rost, and roost.] Jamieson. 
To roar; to bellow; to snort; to snore loudly. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. 
A bellowing; a shouting; noise; clamor; uproar; disturbance; tumult. Shak. This new book the whole world makes such a rout about. Sterne. "My child, it is not well," I said, "Among the graves to shout; To laugh and play among the dead, And make this noisy rout." Trench. 
To scoop out with a gouge or other tool; to furrow. To rout out (a) To turn up to view, as if by rooting; to discover; to find. (b) To turn out by force or compulsion; as, to rout people out of bed. [Colloq.] 
To search or root in the ground, as a swine. Edwards. 
A disturbance of the peace by persons assembled together with intent to do a thing which, if executed, would make them rioters, and actually making a motion toward the executing thereof. Wharton. 
To break the ranks of, as troops, and put them to flight in disorder; to put to rout. That party . . . that charged the Scots, so totally routed and defeated their whole army, that they fied. Clarendon. 
To assemble in a crowd, whether orderly or disorderly; to collect in company. [obs.] Bacon. In all that land no Christian[s] durste route. Chaucer. 
The course or way which is traveled or passed, or is to be passed; a passing; a course; a road or path; a march. Wide through the furzy field their route they take. Gay. 
Ruth; sorrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A thickening, made of flour, for soups and gravies. 
To shoot at rovers; hence, to shoot at an angle of elevation, not at point-blank (rovers usually being beyond the point-blank range). Fair Venusson that with thy cruel dart At that good knoght cunningly didst rove. Spenser. 
The act of wandering; a ramble. In thy nocturnal rove one moment halt. Young. Rove beetle (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of beetles of the family Staphylinidæ, having short elytra beneath which the wings are folded transversely. They are rapid runners, and seldom fly. 
A ball which has passed through all the hoops and would go out if it hit the stake but is continued in play; also, the player of such a ball. 
The act of one who roves or wanders. 
Rough; stern; angry. [Obs.] "Lock he never so row." Chaucer. 
A noisy, turbulent quarrel or disturbance; a brawl. [Colloq.] Byron. 
A series of persons or things arranged in a continued line; a line; a rank; a file; as, a row of trees; a row of houses or columns. And there were windows in three rows. 1 Kings vii. 4. The bright seraphim in burning row. Milton. Row culture (Agric.), the practice of cultivating crops in drills. -- Row of points (Geom.), the points on a line, infinite in number, as the points in which a pencil of rays is intersected by a line. 
The act of rowing; excursion in a rowboat. 
Rowan tree. Rowan barry, a barry of the rowan tree. 
One who engages in rows, or noisy quarrels; a ruffianly fellow. M. Arnold. 
Formed into a row, or rows; having a row, or rows; as, a twelve-rowed ear of corn. 
A roll of hair, silk, etc., passed through the flesh of horses, answering to a seton in human surgery. 
To insert a rowel, or roll of hair or silk, into (as the flesh of a horse). Mortimer. 
One who rows with an oar. 
See Rowen. 
see Roun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A king. [obs.] 
Royal. [Obs.] Chapman. 
A small sail immediately above the topgallant sail. Totten. 
To bite; to gnaw. [Written also roin.] [Obs.] Spenser. 
The sound of a drum when continuously beaten; hence, a clamorous, repeated sound; a clatter. The rubadub of the abolition presses. D. Webster. 
Robbed; borrowed. Temple rubato. Etym: [It.] (Mus.) Borrowed time; -- a term applied to a style of performance in which some tones are held longer than their legitimate time, while others are proportionally curtailed. 
To coat or impregnate with rubber or a rubber solution or preparation, as silk. 
A mass or stratum of fragments or rock lying under the alluvium, and derived from the neighboring rock. Lyell. 
Relating to, or containing, rubble. 
One of several color-producing glycosides found in madder root. 
To redden. [R.] "Waters rubifying." Chaucer. 
same as Rust, n., 2. 
A ruby. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The unit of monetary value in Russia. It is divided into 100 copecks, and in the gold coin of the realm (as in the five and ten ruble pieces) is worth about 77 cents. The silver ruble is a coin worth about 60 cents. [Written also rouble.] 
That part of any work in the early manuscripts and typography which was colored red, to distinguish it from other portions. Hence, specifically: (a) A titlepage, or part of it, especially that giving the date and place of printing; also, the initial letters, etc., when printed in red. (b) (Law books) The title of a statute; -- so called as being anciently written in red letters. Bell. (c) (Liturgies) The directions and rules for the conduct of service, formerly written or printed in red; hence, also, an ecclesiastical or episcopal injunction; -- usually in the plural. All the clergy in England solemnly pledge themselves to observe the rubrics. Hook. 
To adorn ith red; to redden; to rubricate. [R.] Johnson. 
A genus of rosaceous plants, including the raspberry and blackberry. 
A precious stone of a carmine red color, sometimes verging to violet, or intermediate between carmine and hyacinth red. It is a red crystallized variety of corundum. 
Ruby-colored; red; as, ruby lips. 
To make red; to redden. [R.] Pope. 
A ruche, or ruches collectively. 
A roc. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Drayton. 
To draw into wrinkles or unsightly folds; to crease; as, to ruck up a carpet. Smart. 
A wrinkle or crease in a piece of cloth, or in needlework. 
To cower; to huddle together; to squat; to sit, as a hen on eggs. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Gower. South. The sheep that rouketh in the fold. Chaucer. 
The act of belching wind. 
The rudd. 
To make red. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A fresh-water European fish of the Carp family (Leuciscus erythrophthalmus). It is about the size and shape of the roach, but it has the dorsal fin farther back, a stouter body, and red irises. Called also redeye, roud, finscale, and shallow. A blue variety is called azurine, or blue roach. 
A riddle or sieve. [Prov. Eng.] 
The mechanical appliance by means of which a vessel is guided or steered when in motion. It is a broad and flat blade made of wood or iron, with a long shank, and is fastened in an upright position, usually by one edge, to the sternpost of the vessel in such a way that it can be turned from side to side in the water by means of a tiller, wheel, or other attachment. 
To raddle or twist. [Obs.] 
A riddle or sieve. [Obs.] Holland. 
A species of red earth colored by iron sesquioxide; red ocher. 
To mark with ruddle; to raddle; to rouge. "Their ruddled cheeks." Thackeray. A fair sheep newly ruddled. Lady M. W. Montagu. 
To make ruddy. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 
Cabling. See Cabling. gwilt. 
Somewhat rude. Foote. 
Rudeness; ignorance. [R.] 
A perennial suffrutescent plant (Ruta graveolens), having a strong, heavy odor and a bitter taste; herb of grace. It is used in medicine. Then purged with euphrasy and rue The visual nerve, for he had much to see. Milton. They [the exorcists] are to try the devil by holy water, incense, sulphur, rue, which from thence, as we suppose, came to be called herb of grace. Jer. Taylor. 
Sorrow; repetance. [Obs.] Shak. 
See rewel bone. [Obs.] 
A private circle or assembly at a private house; a circle. [Obs.] Dryden. 
To trump. 
A low, vibrating beat of a drum, not so loud as a roll; a ruffle. 
To beat with the ruff or ruffle, as a drum. 
Furnished with a ruff. Ruffed grouse (Zoöl.), a North American grouse (Bonasa umbellus) common in the wooded districts of the Northern United States. The male has a ruff of brown or black feathers on each side of the neck, and is noted for the loud drumming sound he makes during the breeding season. Called also tippet grouse, partridge, birch partridge, pheasant, drummer, and white-flesher. -- ruffed lemur (Zoöl.), a species of lemur (lemur varius) having a conspicuous ruff on the sides of the head. Its color is varied with black and white. Called also ruffed maucaco. 
Disordered. [Obs.] His ruffin rainment all was stained with blood. Spenser. 
To beat with the ruff or ruffle, as a drum. 
A low, vibrating beat of a drum, not so loud as a roll; -- called also ruff. H. L. Scott. 
A phenol derivative of anthracene obtained as a white crystalline substance, which on oxidation produces a red dyestuff related to anthraquinone. 
Reddish; of a yellowish red or brownish red color; tawny. 
Eructation; belching. [Obs.] 
To pull roughly or hastily; to plunder; to spoil; to tear. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
A wrinkle; a fold; as, the rugæ of the stomach. 
Having alternate ridges and depressions; wrinkled. Dana. 
A coarse kind of woolen cloth, used for wrapping, blanketing, etc. 
Rugged; rough. [Obs.] "With ruggy, ashy hairs." Chaucer. 
A nappy cloth. [Obs.] Wiseman. 
An instrument for scraping the periosteum from bones; a raspatory. 
To scrape or rasp, as a bone; to scale. [R.] Wiseman. 
An extinct tribe of fossil corals, including numerous species, many of them of large size. They are characteristic of the Paleozoic formations. The radiating septs, when present, are usually in multiples of four. See Cyathophylloid. 
Wrinkled; full of wrinkles; specifically (Bot.), having the veinlets sunken and the spaces between them elevated, as the leaves of the sage and horehound. 
Wrinkled; rugose. 
To bring to ruin; to cause to fall to pieces and decay; to make to perish; to bring to destruction; to bring to poverty or bankruptcy; to impair seriously; to damage essentially; to overthrow. this mortal house I'll ruin. Shak. By thee raised, I ruin all my foes. Milton. The eyes of other people are the eyes that ruin us. Franklin. By the fireside there are old men seated, Seeling ruined cities in the ashes. Longfellow. 
To fall to ruins; to go to ruin; to become decayed or dilapidated; to perish. [R.] Though he his house of polished marble build, Yet shall it ruin like the moth's frail cell. Sandys. If we are idle, and disturb the industrious in their business, we shall ruin the faster. Locke. 
One who, or that which, ruins. 
A large bird, supposed by some to be the same as the extinct Epiornis of Madagascar. [Obs.] 
An order regulating the practice of the courts, or an order made between parties to an action or a suit. Wharton. 
To require or command by rule; to give as a direction or order of court. 
To lay down and settle a rule or order of court; to decide an incidental point; to enter a rule. Burril. Bouvier. 
A decision or rule of a judge or a court, especially an oral decision, as in excluding evidence. 
orderly; easily restrained; -- opposed to Ant: unruly. [Obs.] Gascoigne. 
A kind of intoxicating liquor distilled from cane juice, or from the scumming of the boiled juice, or from treacle or molasses, or from the lees of former distillations. Also, sometimes used colloquially as a generic or a collective name for intoxicating liquor. Rum bud, a grog blossom. [Colloq.] -- Rum shrub, a drink composed of rum, water, sugar, and lime juice or lemon juice, with some flavoring extract. 
Old-fashioned; queer; odd; as, a rum idea; a rum fellow. [Slang] Dickens. 
A queer or odd person or thing; a country parson. [Slang, Obs.] Swift. 
To cause to pass through a rumble, or shaking machine. See Rumble, n., 4. 
grog. [Obs.] Sir W. Scott. 
The first stomach of ruminants; the paunch; the fardingbag. See Illust. below. 
A popular or jocular name for a drinking vessel. [Obs.] 
A large and tall glass, or drinking cup. [Obs.] J. Philips. 
Of or pertaining to rum; characteristic of rum; as a rummy flavor. 
One who drinks rum; an habitually intemperate person. [Low] 
Strange; odd. [Slang] 
A sort of Spanish wine. [Obs.] 
To report by rumor; to tell. 'T was rumored My father 'scaped from out the citadel. Dryden. 
A member or a supporter of the Rump Parliament. I. Disraeli. 
To make uneven; to form into irregular inequalities; to wrinkle; to crumple; as, to rumple an apron or a cravat. They would not give a dog's ear of their most rumpled and ragged Scoth paper for twenty of your fairest assignats. Burke. 
A fold or plait; a wrinkle. Dryden. 
Rumpled. Carlyle. 
A disturbance; noise and confusion; a quarrel. [Colloq.] 
To move rapidly by springing steps so that there is an instant in each step when neither foot touches the ground; -- so distinguished from walking in athletic competition. As thing run, according to the usual order, conditions, quality, etc.; on the average; without selection or specification. -- To let run (Naut.), to allow to pass or move freely; to slacken or loosen. -- To run after, to pursue or follow; to search for; to endeavor to find or obtain; as to run after similies. Locke. -- To run away, to flee; to escape; to elope; to run without control or guidance. -- To run away with. (a) To convey away hurriedly; to accompany in escape or elopement. (b) To drag rapidly and with violence; as, a horse runs away with a carriage. -- To run down. (a) To cease to work or operate on account of the exhaustion of the motive power; -- said of clocks, watches, etc. (b) To decline in condition; as, to run down in health. -- To run down a coast, to sail along it. -- To run for an office, to stand as a candidate for an office. -- To run in or into. (a) To enter; to step in. (b) To come in collision with. -- To run in trust, to run in debt; to get credit. [Obs.] -- To run in with. (a) To close; to comply; to agree with. [R.] T. Baker. (b) (Naut.) To make toward; to near; to sail close to; as, to run in with the land. -- To run mad, To run mad after or on. See under Mad. -- To run on. (a) To be continued; as, their accounts had run on for a year or two without a settlement. (b) To talk incessantly. (c) To continue a course. (d) To press with jokes or ridicule; to abuse with sarcasm; to bear hard on. (e) (Print.) To be continued in the same lines, without making a break or beginning a new paragraph. -- To run out. (a) To come to an end; to expire; as, the lease runs out Michaelmas. (b) To extend; to spread. "Insectile animals . . . run all out into legs." Hammond. (c) To expatiate; as, to run out into beautiful digressions. (d) To be wasted or exhausted; to become poor; to become extinct; as, an estate managed without economy will soon run out. And had her stock been less, no doubt She must have long ago run out. Dryden. -- To run over. (a) To overflow; as, a cup runs over, or the liquor runs over. (b) To go over, examine, or rehearse cursorily. (c) To ride or drive over; as, to run over a child. -- To run riot, to go to excess. -- To run through. (a) To go through hastily; as to run through a book. (b) To spend wastefully; as, to run through an estate. -- To run to seed, to expend or exhaust vitality in producing seed, as a plant; figuratively and colloquially, to cease growing; to lose vital force, as the body or mind. -- To run up, to rise; to swell; to grow; to increase; as, accounts of goods credited run up very fast. But these, having been untrimmed for many years, had run up into great bushes, or rather dwarf trees. Sir W. Scott. -- To run with. (a) To be drenched with, so that streams flow; as, the streets ran with blood. (b) To flow while charged with some foreign substance. "Its rivers ran with gold." J. H. Newman. 
The horizontal distance to which a drift may be carried, either by license of the proprietor of a mine or by the nature of the formation; also, the direction which a vein of ore or other substance takes. 
A fugitive; a vagabond; an apostate; a renegade. See Renegade. Bunyan. Wretched runagates from the jail. De Quincey. Who has not been a runagate from duty Hare. 
The wild radish. Dr. Prior. 
A moat with water in it; also, a small stream; a runlet. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A circle. [Prov. Eng.] 
One of the pins or trundles of a lantern wheel. 
Old Norse poetry expressed in runes. Runes were upon his tongue, As on the warrior's sword. Longfellow. Rune stone, a stone bearing a runic inscription. 
A bard, or learned man, among the ancient Goths. Sir W. Temple. 
imp. & p. p. of Ring. 
A floor timber in a ship. 
Of or pertaining to a rune, to runes, or to the Norsemen; as, runic verses; runic letters; runic names; runic rhyme. Runic staff. See Clog almanac, under Clog. -- Runic wand, a willow wand bearing runes, formerly thought to have been used by the heathen tribes of Northern Europe in magical ceremonies. 
A little run or stream; a streamlet; a brook. To trace out to its marshy source every runlet that has cast in its tiny pitcherful with the rest. Lowell. 
Same as Rundlet. "A stoup of sack, or a runlet of canary." Sir W. Scott. 
A rivulet or small brook. Buddling rundels joined the sound. Collins. By the very sides of the way . . . there are slow runnels, in which one can see the minnows swimming. Masson. 
A slender trailing branch which takes root at the joints or end and there forms new plants, as in the strawberry and the common cinquefoil. 
See Rennet. 
Any animal which is unusually small, as compared with others of its kind; -- applied particulary to domestic animals. 
Like a runt; diminutive; mean. 
A silver coin, and money of account, in the East Indies. 
An eruption upon the skin, consisting of vesicles with inflamed base and filled with serous, purulent, or bloody fluid, which dries up, forming a blackish crust. 
Of or pertaining to rupia. 
The gossamer-winged butterflies; a family of small butterflies, including the hairstreaks, violets, and theclas. 
An artifice; trick; stratagem; wile; fraund; deceit. Ruse de guerre ( Etym: [F.], a stratagem of war. 
A name given to many aquatic or marsh-growing endogenous plants with soft, slender stems, as the species of Juncus and Scirpus. 
A kind of rural festival at the dedication of a church, when the parishioners brought rushes to strew the church. [Eng.] Nares. 
Abounding or covered with rushes. 
One who rushes. Whitlock. 
One who strewed rushes on the floor at dances. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rusa, which includes the sambur deer (Rusa Aristotelis) of India. Rusine antler (Zoöl.), an antler with the brow tyne simple, and the beam forked at the tip. 
A depilatory made of orpiment and quicklime, and used by the Turks. See Rhusma. 
Of or pertaining to the Russians. 
See Russet, n., 2 and 4. 
A country of Europe and Asia. Russia iron, a kind of sheet iron made in Russia, having a lustrous blue-black surface. -- Russia leather, a soft kind of leather, made originally in Russia but now elsewhere, having a peculiar odor from being impregnated with an oil obtained from birch bark. It is much used in bookbinding, on account of its not being subject to mold, and being proof against insects. -- Russia matting, matting manufactured in Russia from the inner bark of the linden (Tilia Europæa). 
The reddish yellow coating formed on iron when exposed to moist air, consisting of ferric oxide or hydroxide; hence, by extension, any metallic film of corrosion. 
Full of rust; resembling rust; causing rust; rusty. "Rustful sloth." Quarles. 
Rustic. "Rustical society." Thackeray. -- Rus"tic*al*ly, adv. -- Rus"tic*al*ness, n. 
To cause to rustle; as, the wind rustles the leaves. 
A quick succession or confusion of small sounds, like those made by shaking leaves or straw, by rubbing silk, or the like; a rustling. When the noise of a torrent, the rustle of a wood, the song of birds, or the play of lambs, had power to fill the attention, and suspend all perception of the course of time. Idler. 
Resembling, or covered with a substance resembling, rust; affected with rust; rubiginous. 
Sexual desire or oestrus of deer, cattle, and various other mammals; heat; also, the period during which the oestrus exists. 
To have a strong sexual impulse at the reproductive period; -- said of deer, cattle, etc. 
To cover in copulation. Dryden. 
A track worn by a wheel or by habitual passage of anything; a groove in which anything runs. Also used figuratively. in a rut. 
To make a rut or ruts in; -- chiefly used as a past participle or a participial adj; as, a rutted road. 
A salt of rutic acid. 
Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with ruthenious compounds. 
pertaining to, or obtained from, rue (Ruta); as, rutic acid, now commonly called capric acid. 
A mineral usually of a reddish brown color, and brilliant metallic adamantine luster, occurring in tetragonal crystals. In composition it is titanium dioxide, like octahedrite and brooklite. 
A glucoside resembling, but distinct from, quercitrin. Rutin is found in the leaves of the rue (Ruta graveolens) and other plants, and obtained as a bitter yellow crystalline substance which yields quercitin on decomposition. 
A horseman or trooper. [Obs.] Such a regiment of rutters Never defied men braver. Beau. & Fl. 
That which ruts. 
A rattling sound in the throat arising from difficulty of breathing; a rattle. [Obs.] 
Ruttish; lustful. 
Full of ruts; as a rutty road. 
Rooty. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Royal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Rial, and old English coin. 
A gold coin of Zealand [Netherlands] equal to 14 florins, about $ 5.60. 
A grain yielded by a hardy cereal grass (Secale cereale), closely allied to wheat; also, the plant itself. Rye constitutes a large portion of the breadstuff used by man. 
A piece of iron crossing the hole in the upper millstone by which the stone is supported on the spindle. 
A peasant or cultivator of the soil. [India] The Indian ryot and the Egyptian fellah work for less pay than any other laborers in the world. The Nation. 
A branch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Rush, a plant. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A ford. [Obs.] 
A genus of large edentulous sirenians, allied to the dugong and manatee, including but one species (R. Stelleri); -- called also Steller's sea cow. [Written also Rhytina.] 
See Sadh. 
Same as Bushmen. 
A genus of palm trees including the palmetto of the Southern United States. 
In mediæval demonology, the nocturnal assembly in which demons and sorcerers were thought to celebrate their orgies. 
Same as Sabian. 
An adherent of the Sabian religion; a worshiper of the heavenly bodies. [Written also Sabæan, and Sabean.] 
The very hard wood of a leguminous West Indian tree (Lysilona Sabicu), valued for shipbuilding. 
Of or pertaining to the ancient Sabines, a people of Italy. -- n. 
See Savin. 
A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela zibellina) native of the northern latitudes of Europe, Asia, and America, -- noted for its fine, soft, and valuable fur. 
Of the color of the sable's fur; dark; black; -- used chiefly in poetry. Night, sable goddess! from her ebon throne, In rayless majesty, now stretches forth Her leaden scepter o'er a slumbering world. Young. Sable antelope (Zoöl.), a large South African antelope (Hippotragus niger). Both sexes have long, sharp horns. The adult male is black; the female is dark chestnut above, white beneath. -- Sable iron, a superior quality of Russia iron; -- so called because originally stamped with the figure of a sable. -- Sable mouse (Zoöl.), the lemming. 
To render sable or dark; to drape darkly or in black. Sabled all in black the shady sky. G. Fletcher. 
A thick, circular disk of wood, to which the cartridge bag and projectile are attached, in fixed ammunition for cannon; also, a piece of soft metal attached to a projectile to take the groove of the rifling. 
See Saber. 
See Sace. 
The privilege formerly enjoyed the lord of a manor, of holding courts, trying causes, and imposing fines. Cowell. 
A cavity, bag, or receptacle, usually containing fluid, and either closed, or opening into another cavity to the exterior; a sack. 
See Saker. 
A sac. 
A small bag. See Satchel. 
A chief of a tribe of the American Indians; a sagamore. 
A scent bag, or perfume cushion, to be laid among handkerchiefe, garments, etc., to perfume them. 
A anme formerly given to various dry Spanish wines. "Sherris sack." Shak. Sack posset, a posset made of sack, and some other ingredients. 
Originally, a loosely hanging garnment for women, worn like a cloak about the shoulders, and serving as a decorative appendage to the gown; now, an outer garment with sleeves, worn by women; as, a dressing saek. [Written also sacque.] 
the pillage or plunder, as of a town or city; the storm and plunder of a town; devastation; ravage. The town was stormed, and delivered up to sack, -- by which phrase is to be understood the perpetration of all those outrages which the ruthless code of war allowed, in that age, on the persons and property of the defenseless inhabitants, without regard to sex or age. Prescott. 
To plunder or pillage, as a town or city; to devastate; to ravage. The Romans lay under the apprehension of seeing their city sacked by a barbarous enemy. Addison. 
One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of a town. 
Same as 2d Sack, 3. 
Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum. 
See Sakker. 
To consecrate; to make sacred. [Obs.] Holland. 
Employed in sacrifice. [R.] Johnson. 
That part of the vertebral column which is directly connected with, or forms a part of, the pelvis. 
A tribe of Indians, which, together with the Foxes, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin. [Written also Sauks.] 
To make sorrowful; to sadden. [Obs.] How it sadded the minister's spirits! H. Peters. 
A work in the Persian tongue, being a summary of the Zend- Avesta, or sacred books. 
To make sad. Specifically: (a) To render heavy or cohesive. [Obs.] Marl is binding, and saddening of land is the great prejudice it doth to clay lands. Mortimer. 
To become, or be made, sad. Tennyson. 
Same as Sadda. 
A block of wood, usually fastened to some spar, and shaped to receive the end of another spar. 
Same as Saddle-backed. Saddleback roof. (Arch.) See Saddle roof, under Saddle. 
A member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos. Sadhs resemble the Quakers in many respects. Balfour (cyc. of India). 
A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus); -- so called by the Arabs of Barbary, who use its berries for food. See Lotus (b). 
A place for keeping things in safety. Specifically: (a) A strong and fireproof receptacle (as a movable chest of steel, etc., or a closet or vault of brickwork) for money, valuable papers, or the like. (b) A ventilated or refrigerated chest or closet for securing provisions from noxious animals or insects. 
To render safe; to make right. [Obs.] Shak. 
In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences. 
Same as Safety touchdown, below. Safety arch (Arch.), a discharging arch. See under Discharge, v. t. -- Safety belt, a belt made of some buoyant material, or which is capable of being inflated, so as to enable a person to float in water; a life preserver. -- Safety buoy, a buoy to enable a person to float in water; a safety belt. -- Safety cage (Mach.), a cage for an elevator or mine lift, having appliances to prevent it from dropping if the lifting rope should break. -- Safety lamp. (Mining) See under Lamp. -- Safety match, a match which can be ignited only on a surface specially prepared for the purpose. -- Safety pin, a pin made in the form of a clasp, with a guard covering its point so that it will not prick the wearer. -- safety plug. See Fusible plug, under Fusible. -- Safety switch. See Switch. -- Safety touchdown (Football), the act or result of a player's touching to the ground behind his own goal line a ball which received its last impulse from a man on his own side; -- distinguished from touchback. See Touchdown. -- Safety tube (Chem.), a tube to prevent explosion, or to control delivery of gases by an automatic valvular connection with the outer air; especially, a bent funnel tube with bulbs for adding those reagents which produce unpleasant fumes or violent effervescence. -- Safety valve, a valve which is held shut by a spring or weight and opens automatically to permit the escape of steam, or confined gas, water, etc., from a boiler, or other vessel, when the pressure becomes too great for safety; also, sometimes, a similar valve opening inward to admit air to a vessel in which the pressure is less than that of the atmosphere, to prevent collapse. 
To cause to bend or give way; to load. 
State of sinking or bending; sagging. 
A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time. And then the blue-eyed Norseman told A saga of the days of old. Longfellow. 
A wise man; a man of gravity and wisdom; especially, a man venerable for years, and of sound judgment and prudence; a grave philosopher. At his birth a star, Unseen before in heaven, proclaims him come, And guides the Eastern sages. Milton. 
In a sage manner; wisely. 
A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet. 
A bending or sinking between the ends of a thing, in consequence of its own, or an imposed, weight; an arching downward in the middle, as of a ship after straining. Cf. Hogging. 
A dry granulated starch imported from the East Indies, much used for making puddings and as an article of diet for the sick; also, as starch, for stiffening textile fabrics. It is prepared from the stems of several East Indian and Malayan palm trees, but chiefly from the Metroxylon Sagu; also from several cycadaceous plants (Cycas revoluta, Zamia integrifolia, atc.). Portland sago, a kind of sago prepared from the corms of the cuckoopint (Arum maculatum). -- Sago palm. (Bot.) (a) A palm tree which yields sago. (b) A species of Cycas (Cycas revoluta). -- Sago spleen (Med.), a morbid condition of the spleen, produced by amyloid degeneration of the organ, in which a cross section shows scattered gray translucent bodies looking like grains of sago. 
A marmoset; -- called also sagouin. 
The military cloak of the Roman soldiers. 
A genus of palms from which sago is obtained. 
Full of sage; seasoned with sage. 
A marmoset. 
See Capuchin, 3 (a). 
A kind of ketch very common in the Levant, which has neither topgallant sail nor mizzen topsail. 
imp. & p. p. of Say. 
before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style. 
An antelope (Saiga Tartarica) native of the plains of Siberia and Eastern Russia. The male has erect annulated horns, and tufts of long hair beneath the eyes and ears. 
Same as Saker. [Obs.] 
Capable of being sailed over; navigable; as, a sailable river. 
The art of managing a vessel; seamanship; navigation; as, globular sailing; oblique sailing. 
One who follows the business of navigating ships or other vessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; one of the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman. 
Like a sail. [R.] Drayton. 
Lard; grease. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 
The squirrel monkey. 
Said. Shak. 
To sanctify; to bless so as to protect from evil influence. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 
One canonized by the church. [Abbrev. St.] Saint Andrew's cross (a) A cross shaped like the letter X. See Illust. 4, under Cross. (b) (Bot.) A low North American shrub (Ascyrum Crux-Andræ, the petals of which have the form of a Saint Andrew's cross. Gray. -- Saint Anthony's cross, a T-shaped cross. See Illust. 6, under Cross. -- Saint Anthony's fire, the erysipelas; -- popularly so called because it was supposed to have been cured by the intercession of Saint Anthony. -- Saint Anthony's nut (Bot.), the groundnut (Bunium flexuosum); -- so called because swine feed on it, and St. Anthony was once a swineherd. Dr. Prior. -- Saint Anthony's turnip (Bot.), the bulbous crowfoot, a favorite food of swine. Dr. Prior. -- Saint Barnaby's thistle (Bot.), a kind of knapeweed (Centaurea solstitialis) flowering on St. Barnabas's Day, June 11th. Dr. Prior. -- Saint Bernard (Zoöl.), a breed of large, handsome dogs celebrated for strength and sagacity, formerly bred chiefly at the Hospice of St. Bernard in Switzerland, but now common in Europe and America. There are two races, the smooth-haired and the rough-haired. See Illust. under Dog. -- Saint Catharine's flower (Bot.), the plant love-a-mist. See under Love. -- Saint Cuthbert's beads (Paleon.), the fossil joints of crinoid stems. -- Saint Dabeoc's heath (Bot.), a heatherlike plant (Dabæcia polifolia), named from an Irish saint. -- Saint Distaff's Day. See under Distaff. -- Saint Elmo's fire, a luminious, flamelike appearance, sometimes seen in dark, tempestuous nights, at some prominent point on a ship, particularly at the masthead and the yardams. It has also been observed on land, and is due to the discharge of electricity from elevated or pointed objects. A single flame is called a Helena, or a Corposant; a double, or twin, flame is called a Castor and Pollux, or a double Corposant. It takes its name from St. Elmo, the patron saint of sailors. -- Saint George's cross (Her.), a Greek cross gules upon a field argent, the field being represented by a narrow fimbriation in the ensign, or union jack, of Great Britain. -- Saint George's ensign, a red cross on a white field with a union jack in the upper corner next the mast. It is the distinguishing badge of ships of the royal navy of England; -- called also the white ensign. Brande & C. -- Saint George's flag, a smaller flag resembling the ensign, but without the union jack; used as the sign of the presence and command of an admiral. [Eng.] Brande & C. -- Saint Gobain glass (Chem.), a fine variety of soda-lime plate glass, so called from St.Gobain in France, where it was manufactured. -- Saint Ignatius's bean (Bot.), the seed of a tree of the Philippines (Strychnos Ignatia), of properties similar to the nux vomica. -- Saint Jame's shell (Zoöl.), a pecten (Vola Jacobæus) worn by piligrims to the Holy Land. See Illust. under Scallop. -- Saint Jame's wort (Bot.), a kind of ragwort (Senecio Jacobæa). -- Saint John's bread. (Bot.) See Carob. -- Saint John's-wort (Bot.), any plant of the genus Hypericum, most species of which have yellow flowers; -- called also John's-wort. -- Saint Leger, the name of a race for three-year-old horses run annually in September at Doncaster, England; -- instituted in 1776 by Col. St. Leger. -- Saint Martin's herb (Bot.), a small tropical American violaceous plant (Sauvagesia erecta). It is very mucilaginous and is used in medicine. 
To make a saint of; to enroll among the saints by an offical act, as of the pope; to canonize; to give the title or reputation of a saint to (some one). A large hospital, erected by a shoemaker who has been beatified, though never sainted. Addison. To saint it, to act as a saint, or with a show of piety. Whether the charmer sinner it or saint it. Shak. 
To act or live as a saint. [R.] Shak. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Say. [Archaic] 
The pollock, or coalfish; -- called also sillock. [Scot.] 
One of an important religious sect in India which regards Siva with peculiar veneration. 
Same as Sagene. 
Same as Sapajou. 
Final cause; end; purpose of obtaining; cause; motive; reason; interest; concern; account; regard or respect; -- used chiefly in such phrases as, for the sake, for his sake, for man's sake, for mercy's sake, and the like; as, to commit crime for the sake of gain; to go abroad for the sake of one's health. Moved with wrath and shame and ladies; sake. Spenser. I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake. Gen. viii. 21. Will he draw out, For anger's sake, finite to infinite Milton. Knowledge is for the sake of man, and not man for the sake of knowledge. Sir W. Hamilton. 
A small piece of artillery. Wilhelm. On the bastions were planted culverins and sakers. Macaulay. The culverins and sakers showing their deadly muzzles over the rampart. Hawthorne. 
Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Pithecia. They have large ears, and a long hairy tail which is not prehensile. 
The alcoholic drink of Japan. It is made from rice.sake 
The divine energy, personified as the wife of a deity (Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, etc.); the female principle. 
An East Indian timber tree (Shorea robusta), much used for building purposes. It is of a light brown color, close-grained, and durable. [Written also saul.] 
Salt. Sal absinthii Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), an impure potassium carbonate obtained from the ashes of wormwood (Artemisia Absinthium). -- Sal acetosell\'91 Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), salt of sorrel. -- Sal alembroth. (Old Chem.) See Alembroth. -- Sal ammoniac (Chem.), ammonium chloride, NH4Cl, a white crystalline volatile substance having a sharp salty taste, obtained from gas works, from nitrogenous matter, etc. It is largely employed as a source of ammonia, as a reagent, and as an expectorant in bronchitis. So called because originally made from the soot from camel's dung at the temple of Jupiter Ammon in Africa. Called also muriate of ammonia. -- Sal catharticus Etym: [NL.] (Old Med. Chem.), Epsom salts. -- Sal culinarius Etym: [L.] (Old Chem.), common salt, or sodium chloride. -- Sal Cyrenaicus. Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.) See Sal ammoniac above. -- Sal de duobus, Sal duplicatum Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), potassium sulphate; -- so called because erroneously supposed to be composed of two salts, one acid and one alkaline. -- Sal diureticus Etym: [NL.] (Old Med. Chem.), potassium acetate. -- Sal enixum Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), acid potassium sulphate. -- Sal gemm\'91 Etym: [NL.] (Old Min.), common salt occuring native. -- Sal Jovis Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), salt tin, or stannic chloride; -- the alchemical name of tin being Jove. -- Sal Martis Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), green vitriol, or ferrous sulphate; -- the alchemical name of iron being. Mars. -- Sal microcosmicum Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.) See Microcosmic salt, under Microcosmic. -- Sal plumbi Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), sugar of lead. -- Sal prunella. (Old Chem.) See Prunella salt, under 1st Prunella. -- Sal Saturni Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), sugar of lead, or lead acetate; -- the alchemical name of lead being Saturn. -- Sal sedativus Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), sedative salt, or boric acid. -- Sal Seignette Etym: [F. seignette, sel de seignette] (Chem.), Rochelle salt. -- Sal soda (Chem.), sodium carbonate. See under Sodium. -- Sal vitrioli Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), white vitriol; zinc sulphate. -- Sal volatile. Etym: [NL.] (a) (Chem.) See Sal ammoniac, above. (b) Spirits of ammonia. 
Same as Salam. Finally, Josiah might have made his salaam to the exciseman just as he was folding up that letter. Prof. Wilson. 
To make or perform a salam. I have salaamed and kowtowed to him. H. James. 
A helmet. See Sallet. 
A salutation or compliment of ceremony in the east by word or act; an obeisance, performed by bowing very low and placing the right palm on the forehead. [Written also salaam.] 
Saline [Obs.] 
The recompense or consideration paid, or stipulated to be paid, to a person at regular intervals for services; fixed wages, as by the year, quarter, or month; stipend; hire. This is hire and salary, not revenge. Shak. 
To pay, or agree to pay, a salary to; to attach salary to; as, to salary a clerk; to salary a position. 
See 1st Sallow. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See Salable, Salably, etc. 
See Salep. 
The dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia. It is used to make a nutritious beverage by treating the powdered preparation with hot water. U. S. Disp. 
Denoting a tribe of Franks who established themselves early in the fourth century on the river Sala [now Yssel]; Salic. -- n. 
Of or pertaining to the Salian Franks, or to the Salic law so called. [Also salique.] Salic law. (a) A code of laws formed by the Salian Franks in the fifth century. By one provision of this code women were excluded from the inheritance of landed property. (b) Specifically, in modern times, a law supposed to be a special application of the above-mentioned provision, in accordance with which males alone can inherit the throne. This law has obtained in France, and at times in other countries of Europe, as Spain. 
A phenol alcohol obtained, by the decomposition of salicin, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also hydroxy-benzyl alcohol. 
The period in which the American Upper Silurian system, containing the brine-producing rocks of central New York, was formed. See the Chart of Geology. 
A salt spring; a place where salt water is collected in the earth. 
A crude potash obtained from beet-root residues and other similar sources. [Written also salin.] 
To season with salt; to salt. [Obs.] 
A massive lamellar variety of pyroxene, of a dingy green color. [Written also sahlite.] 
The secretion from the salivary glands. 
An eruption on the hind leg of a horse. [Written also sellanders, and sellenders.] On the inside of the hock, or a little below it, as well as at the bend of the knee, there is occasionally a scurfy eruption called "mallenders" in the fore leg, and "sallenders" in the hind leg. Youatt. 
A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introduced during the 15th century. [Written also salade.] Then he must have a sallet wherewith his head may be saved. Latimer. 
A name given to certain species of willow, especially those which do not have flexible shoots, as Salix caprea, S. cinerea, etc. Sallow thorn (Bot.), a European thorny shrub (Hippophae rhamnoides) much like an Elæagnus. The yellow berries are sometimes used for making jelly, and the plant affords a yellow dye. 
Having a yellowish color; of a pale, sickly color, tinged with yellow; as, a sallow skin. Shak. 
To tinge with sallowness. [Poetic] July breathes hot, sallows the crispy fields. Lowell. 
To leap or rush out; to burst forth; to issue suddenly; as a body of troops from a fortified place to attack besiegers; to make a sally. They break the truce, and sally out by night. Dryden. The foe retires, -- she heads the sallying host. Byron. 
A tea cake slighty sweetened, and raised with yeast, baked in the form of biscuits or in a thin loaf, and eaten hot with butter. 
Psalm. [Obs.] Piers plowman. 
Same as Salmis. 
A ragout or partky roasted game stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments suited to provoke appetite. 
Any one of several species of fishes of the genus Salmo and allied genera. The common salmon (Salmo salar) of Northern Europe and Eastern North America, and the California salmon, or quinnat, are the most important species. They are extensively preserved for food. See Quinnat. 
Of a reddish yellow or orange color, like that of the flesh of the salmon. 
A white crystalline substance consisting of phenol salicylate. 
An apartment for the reception of company; hence, in the plural, faschionable parties; circles of fashionable society. 
An apartment for the reception and exhibition of works of art; hence, an annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, etc., held in Paris by the Society of French Artists; -- sometimes called the Old Salon. New Salon is a popular name for an annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, etc., held in Paris at the Champs de Mars, by the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts (National Society of Fine Arts), a body of artists who, in 1890, seceded from the Société des Artistes Français (Society of French Artists). 
An aromatic drink prepared from sassafras bark and other ingredients, at one time much used in London. J. Smith (Dict. econ. Plants). Saloop bush (Bot.), an Australian shrub (Rhagodia hastata) of the Goosefoot family, used for fodder. 
Any species of Salpa, or of the family Salpidæ. 
A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanic tunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes. See Illustration in Appendix. 
A mud volcano, the water of which is often impregnated with salts, whence the name. 
The neutral compound formed by the union of an acid base; thus, sulphuric acid and iron form the salt sulphate of iron or green vitriol. 
To deposit salt as a saline solution; as, the brine begins to salt. 
The act of leaping or jumping; a leap. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
One who makes, sells, or applies salt; one who salts meat or fish. 
The European dab. 
With taste of salt; in a salt manner. 
Somewhat salt; saltish. 
To salute. [Obs.] There was no "good day" and no saluyng. Chaucer. 
To honor, as some day, person, or nation, by a discharge of cannon or small arms, by dipping colors, by cheers, etc. 
A token of respect or honor for some distinguished or official personage, for a foreign vessel or flag, or for some festival or event, as by presenting arms, by a discharge of cannon, volleys of small arms, dipping the colors or the topsails, etc. 
Hail! 
To say "Salve" to; to greet; to salute. [Obs.] By this that stranger knight in presence came, And goodly salved them. Spenser. 
To save, as a ship or goods, from the perils of the sea. [Recent] 
One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a quacksalver, or quack. [Obs.] 
A salvor. Skeat. 
A tray or waiter on which anything is presented. 
A genus of plants including the sage. See Sage. 
An exception; a reservation; an excuse. They admit many salvos, cautions, and reservations. Eilon Basilike. 
A concentrated fire from pieces of artillery, as in endeavoring to make a break in a fortification; a volley. 
One who assists in saving a ship or goods at sea, without being under special obligation to do so. Wheaton. 
Together. [Obs.] "All in that city sam." Spenser. 
A dry, indehiscent, usually one-seeded, winged fruit, as that of the ash, maple, and elm; a key or key fruit. 
See Simar. 
A colloquial or humorous appelation for a negro; sometimes, the offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo. 
Same as Sumbur. 
An East Indian deer (Rusa Aristotelis) having a mane on its neck. Its antlers have but three prongs. Called also gerow. The name is applied to other species of the genus Rusa, as the Bornean sambur (R. equina). 
Sameness, 2. [R.] Bayne. 
Of or pertaining to the island of Samos. Fill high the cup with Samian wine. Byreon. Samian earth, a species of clay from Samoa, formerly used in medicine as an astringent. 
A native or inhabitant of Samos. 
A hot and destructive wind that sometimes blows, in Turkey, from the desert. It is identical with the simoom of Arabia and the kamsin of Syria. 
Samian. 
A species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with gold. Tennyson. In silken samite she was light arrayed. Spenser. 
The parr. 
Of or pertaining to the Samoan Islands (formerly called Navigators' Islands) in the South Pacific Ocean, or their inhabitants. -- n. 
An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which is cooked by by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy. 
A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered with a house, and sometimes used as a permanent habitation on the inland waters. [Written also sanpan.] 
A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure. S. W. Williams. 
An Israelite of Bible record (see Judges xiii.), distinguished for his great strength; hence, a man of extraordinary physical strength. Samson post. (a) (Naut.) A strong post resting on the keelson, and supporting a beam of the keelson, and supporting a beam of the deck; also, a temporary or movable pilar carrying a leading block or pulley for various purposes. Brande & C. (b) In deepwell boring, the post which supports the walking beam of the apparatus. 
The nine of trumps in sancho pedro. 
Tracts of land consisting of sand, like the deserts of Arabia and Africa; also, extensive tracts of sand exposed by the ebb of the tide. "The Libyan sands." Milton. "The sands o'Dee." C. Kingsley. 
Same as Sendal. Sails of silk and ropes of sandal. Longfellow. 
Sandalwood. "Fans of sandal." Tennyson. 
Shaped like a sandal or slipper. 
A follower of Robert Sandeman, a Scotch sectary of the eighteenth century. See Glassite. 
A kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of lead, but inferior to true minium. [Written also sandyx.] [Obs.] 
A Russian fish (Lucioperca sandre) which yields a valuable oil, called sandre oil, used in the preparation of caviare. 
See Sandix. 
The state of being sane; sanity. 
imp. of Sing. 
A thin, serous fluid commonly discharged from ulcers or foul wounds. 
The condition or quality of being sane; soundness of health of body or mind, especially of the mind; saneness. 
A district or a subvision of a vilayet. [Turkey] 
imp. of Sink. 
A chank shell (Turbinella pyrum); also, a shell bracelet or necklace made in India from the chank shell. 
same as Sannup. Bancroft. 
A male Indian; a brave; -- correlative of squaw. 
The sandpiper. [prov. Eng.] 
Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an English word. "Sans fail." Chaucer. Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything. Shak. 
A colorless crystalline substance, isomeric with piperonal, but having weak acid properties. It is extracted from sandalwood. 
See Saunter. 
A Turkish saint; a kind of dervish, regarded by the people as a saint: also, a hermit. 
Any marine annelid of the genus Hyalinæcia, especially H. tubicola of Europe, which inhabits a transparent movable tube resembling a quill in color and texture. 
To pierce with saps. 
To proceed by mining, or by secretly undermining; to execute saps. W. P. Craighill. Both assaults carried on by sapping. Tatler. 
A narrow ditch or trench made from the foremost parallel toward the glacis or covert way of a besieged place by digging under cover of gabions, etc. Sap fagot (Mil.), a fascine about three feet long, used in sapping, to close the crevices between the gabions before the parapet is made. -- Sap roller (Mil.), a large gabion, six or seven feet long, filled with fascines, which the sapper sometimes rolls along before him for protection from the fire of an enemy. 
The sapajou. 
Abounding in sap; sappy. 
Having the power of affecting the organs of taste; possessing savor, or flavor. Camels, to make the water sapid, do raise the mud with their feet. Sir T. Browne. 
Power of affecting the organs of taste; savor; flavor; taste. There is some sapor in all aliments. Sir T. Browne. 
The sapodilla. 
One who saps; specifically (Mil.), one who is employed in working at saps, building and repairing fortifications, and the like. 
Any one of several species of brilliant South American humming birds of the genus Sappho, having very bright-colored and deeply forked tails; -- called also firetail. 
Abounding in sap; resembling, or consisting lagerly of, sapwood. 
Musty; tainted. [Obs.] 
One of the outer pinions or feathers of the wing of a bird, esp. of a hawk. 
Same as Hypoxanthin. 
To weed, or clear of weeds, with a hoe. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
A variety of carnelian, of a rich reddish yellow or brownish red color. See the Note under Chalcedony. 
A precious stone. See Sardius. 
The principal garment of a Hindoo woman. It consists of a long piece of cloth, which is wrapped round the middle of the body, a portion being arranged to hang down in front, and the remainder passed across the bosom over the left shoulder. 
Any one of several species of sparoid fishes belonging to Sargus, Pomodasys, and related genera; -- called also sar, and saragu. 
Same as Saree. 
A shirt. [Scot.] 
To cover with sarking, or thin boards. 
Same as Hypoxanthin. 
A pavement or stepping-stone. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson. 
A sort of petticoat worn by both sexes in Java and the Malay Archipelago. Balfour (Cyc. of India) 
A Chaldean astronomical period or cycle, the length of which has been variously estimated from 3,600 years to 3,600 days, or a little short of 10 years. Brande & C. 
A large toadfish the Southern United States and the Gulf of Mexico (Batrachus tau, var. pardus). 
Sarsaparilla. [Written also sarza.] 
A fine sieve; a searce. [Obs.] 
To sift through a sarse. [Obs.] 
One of the large sandstone blocks scattered over the English chalk downs; -- called also sarsen stone, and Druid stone. [Eng.] 
An assart, or clearing. [Obs.] Bailey. 
A scarf or band worn about the waist, over the shoulder, or otherwise; a belt; a girdle, -- worn by women and children as an ornament; also worn as a badge of distinction by military officers, members of societies, etc. 
To adorn with a sash or scarf. Burke. 
To furnish with a sash or sashes; as, to sash a door or a window. 
The Indian antelope (Antilope bezoartica, or cervicapra), noted for its beauty and swiftness. It has long, spiral, divergent horns. 
A sluice or lock, as in a river, to make it more navigable. [Obs.] Pepys. 
Same as Shaster. 
imp. of Sit. [Written also sate.] 
The grand adversary of man; The Devil, or Prince of darkness; the chief of the fallen angels; the archfiend. I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Luke x. 18. 
To satisfy the desire or appetite of; to satiate; to glut; to surfeit. Crowds of wanderers sated with the business and pleasure of great cities. Macaulay. 
imp. of Sit. But sate an equal guest at every board. Lowell. 
A kind of dress goods made of cotton or woolen, with a glossy surface resembling satin. 
A silk cloth, of a thick, close texture, and overshot woof, which has a glossy surface. Cloths of gold and satins rich of hue. Chaucer. Denmark satin, a kind of lasting; a stout worsted stuff, woven with a satin twill, used for women's shoes. -- Farmer's satin. See under Farmer. -- Satin bird (Zoöl.), an Australian bower bird. Called also satin grackle. -- Satin flower (Bot.) See Honesty, 4. -- Satin spar. (Min.) (a) A fine fibrous variety of calcite, having a pearly luster. (b) A similar variety of gypsum. -- Satin sparrow (Zoöl.), the shining flycatcher (Myiagra nitida) of Tasmania and Australia. The upper surface of the male is rich blackish green with a metallic luster. -- Satin stone, satin spar. 
Like or composed of satin; glossy; as, to have a satiny appearance; a satiny texture. 
A sowing or planting. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
One who satirizes; especially, one who writes satire. The mighty satirist, who . . . had spread through the Whig ranks. Macaulay. 
Sown; propagated by seed. [Obs.] Evelyn. 
To settle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The governor of a province in ancient Persia; hence, a petty autocrat despot. 
One of the elder and principal deities, the son of Coelus and Terra (Heaven and Earth), anf the father of Jupiter. The corresponding Greek divinity was Kro`nos, later CHro`nos, Time. 
A sylvan deity or demigod, represented as part man and part goat, and characterized by riotous merriment and lasciviousness. Rough Satyrs danced; and Fauns, with cloven heel, From the glad sound would not be absent long. Milton. 
A soft crayon for use in stump drawing or in shading with the stump. 
In a saucy manner; impudently; with impertinent boldness. Addison. 
Cabbage cut fine and allowed to ferment in a brine made of its own juice with salt, -- a German dish. 
Safe. [Obs.] haucer. 
Save; except. [Obs.] "Sauf I myself." Chaucer. 
Safely. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion Canadense); -- called also gray pike, blue pike, hornfish, land pike, sand pike, pickering, and pickerel. 
Same as Sacs. 
Soul. [Obs.] 
Same as Sal, the tree. 
A hired mourner at a funeral. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
A rapid in some rivers; as, the Sault Ste. Marie. [U.S.] Bartlett. 
Soil; dirt; dirty water; urine from a cowhouse. [Prov. Eng.] 
Any carangoid fish of the genus Trachurus, especially T. trachurus, or T. saurus, of Europe and America, and T. picturatus of California. Called also skipjack, and horse mackarel. 
A division of Reptilia formerly established to include the Lacertilia, Crocodilia, Dinosauria, and other groups. By some writers the name is restricted to the Lacertilia. 
A slender marine fish (Scombresox saurus) of Europe and America. It has long, thin, beaklike jaws. Called also billfish, gowdnook, gawnook, skipper, skipjack, skopster, lizard fish, and Egypt herring. 
p. p. of Sauter. C. Owen. 
To fry lightly and quickly, as meat, by turning ot tossing it over frequently in a hot pan greased with a little fat. 
Psalter. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
To make savage. [R.] Its bloodhounds, savaged by a cross of wolf. South 
A man of learning; one versed in literature or science; a person eminent for acquirements. 
The herb sage, or salvia. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Specifically, to deliver from and its penalty; to rescue from a state of condemnation and spiritual death, and bring into a state of spiritual life. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. 1 Tim. i. 15. 
To avoid unnecessary expense or expenditure; to prevent waste; to be economical. Brass ordnance saveth in the quantity of the material. Bacon. 
Except; excepting; not including; leaving out; deducting; reserving; saving. Five times received I forty stripes save one. 2 Cor. xi. 24. 
Except; unless. 
Safely. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who saves. 
1. Preserving; rescuing. He is the saving strength of his anointed. Ps. xxviii. 8. 
With the exception of; except; excepting; also, without disrespect to. "Saving your reverence." Shak. "Saving your presence." Burns. None of us put off clothes, saving that every one put them off for washing. Neh. iv. 23. And in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it. Rev. ii. 17. 
A female savior. [Written also saviouress.] [R.] Bp. Hall. 
In a savory manner. 
Pleasing to the organs of taste or smell. [Written also savoury.] The chewing flocks Had ta'en their supper on the savory herb. Milton. 
A variety of the common cabbage (Brassica oleracea major), having curled leaves, -- much cultivated for winter use. 
imp. of See. 
An instrument for cutting or dividing substances, as wood, iron, etc., consisting of a thin blade, or plate, of steel, with a series of sharp teeth on the edge, which remove successive portions of the material by cutting and tearing. 
See Souari nut. 
A corrupt spelling and pronunciation of solder. Soft sawder, seductive praise; flattery; blarney. [Slang] 
One who saws; a sawyer. 
Any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to the family Tenthredinidæ. The female usually has an ovipositor containing a pair of sawlike organs with which she makes incisions in the leaves or stems of plants in which to lay the eggs. The larvæ resemble those of Lepidoptera. 
A merganser. [Prov. Eng.] 
A psaltery. [Obs.] Dryden. 
The bowfin. [Local, U.S.] 
A kind of chopping instrument for trimming the edges of roofing slates. 
Of or pertaining to the Saxons, their country, or their language. (b) Anglo-Saxon. (c) Of or pertaining to Saxony or its inhabitants. Saxon blue (Dyeing), a deep blue liquid used in dyeing, and obtained by dissolving indigo in concentrated sulphuric acid. Brande & C. -- Saxon green (Dyeing), a green color produced by dyeing with yellow upon a ground of Saxon blue. 
A fine grade of woolen yarn twisted somewhat harder and smoother than zephyr yarn. 
Saw. Chaucer. 
To try; to assay. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To speak; to express an opinion; to make answer; to reply. You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the forest judge. Shak. To this argument we shall soon have said; for what concerns it us to hear a husband divulge his household privacies Milton. 
A speech; something said; an expression of opinion; a current story; a maxim or proverb. [Archaic or Colloq.] He no sooner said out his say, but up rises a cunning snap. L'Estrange. That strange palmer's boding say, That fell so ominous and drear Full on the object of his fear. Sir W. Scott. 
One who says; an utterer. Mr. Curran was something much better than a sayer of smart sayings. Jeffrey. 
That which is said; a declaration; a statement, especially a proverbial one; an aphorism; a proverb. Many are the sayings of the wise, In ancient and in modern books enrolled. Milton. 
One who assays. [Obs.] 
obs. p. p. of Senge, to singe. Chaucer. 
A slight iregular protuberance which defaces the surface of a casting, caused by the breaking away of a part of the mold. 
To become covered with a scab; as, the wound scabbed over. 
The itch. 
An accumulation of adherent, partly fused material forming a shelf, or dome-shaped obstruction, above the tuyères in a blast furnace. 
A machine formerly employed for reducing dislocations of the humerus. 
In the quaternion analysis, a quantity that has magnitude, but not direction; -- distinguished from a vector, which has both magnitude and direction. 
A burn, or injury to the skin or flesh, by some hot liquid, or by steam. 
Scurf on the head. See Scall. Spenser. 
One of the ancient Scandinavian poets and historiographers; a reciter and singer of heroic poems, etc., among the Norsemen; more rarely, a bard of any of the ancient Teutonic tribes. [Written also skald.] A war song such as was of yore chanted on the field of battle by the scalds of the yet heathen Saxons. Sir W. Scott. 
The sign or constellation Libra. Platform scale. See under Platform. tip the scales, influence an action so as to change an outcome from one likely result to another. 
To weigh or measure according to a scale; to measure; also, to grade or vary according to a scale or system. Scaling his present bearing with his past. Shak. To scale, or scale down, a debt, wages, etc., to reduce a debt, etc., according to a fixed ratio or scale. [U.S.] 
One of the small, thin, membranous, bony or horny pieces which form the covering of many fishes and reptiles, and some mammals, belonging to the dermal part of the skeleton, or dermoskeleton. See Cycloid, Ctenoid, and Ganoid. Fish that, with their fins and shining scales, Glide under the green wave. Milton. 
To clean, as the inside of a cannon, by the explosion of a small quantity of powder. Totten. 
To climb by a ladder, or as if by a ladder; to ascend by steps or by climbing; to clamber up; as, to scale the wall of a fort. Oft have I scaled the craggy oak. Spenser. 
To lead up by steps; to ascend. [Obs.] Satan from hence, now on the lower stair, That scaled by steps of gold to heaven-gate, Looks down with wonder. Milton. 
Having feathers which in form, color, or arrangement somewhat resemble scales; as, the scaled dove. Scaled dove (Zoöl.), any American dove of the genus Scardafella. Its colored feather tips resemble scales. 
One who, or that which, scales; specifically, a dentist's instrument for removing tartar from the teeth. 
A scurf or scabby disease, especially of the scalp. It is a dry scall, even a leprosy upon the head. Lev. xiii. 30. 
Scabby; scurfy. [Obs.] Shak. 
A bed of oysters or mussels. [Scot.] 
To remove the skin of. We must scalp the whole lid [of the eye]. J. S. Wells. 
To make a small, quick profit by slight fluctuations of the market; -- said of brokers who operate in this way on their own account. [Cant] 
Composed of scales lying over each other; as, a scaly bulb; covered with scales; as, a scaly stem. Scaly ant-eater (Zoöl.), the pangolin. 
A rascal; a swindler; a rogue. De Quincey. 
To perform in a hasty, neglectful, or imperfect manner; to do superficially. [Colloq.] A workman is said to scamp his work when he does it in a superficial, dishonest manner. Wedgwood. Much of the scamping and dawdling complained of is that of men in establishments of good repute. T. Hughes. 
Anything alleged in pleading which is impertinent, and is reproachful to any person, or which derogates from the dignity of the court, or is contrary to good manners. Daniell. 
To fail, of become less; to scantle; as, the wind scants. 
In a scant manner; with difficulty; scarcely; hardly. [Obs.] Bacon. So weak that he was scant able to go down the stairs. Fuller. 
Scantness; scarcity. [R.] T. Carew. 
A peduncle rising from the ground or from a subterranean stem, as in the stemless violets, the bloodroot, and the like. 
To escape. [Obs. or Poetic.] Milton. Out of this prison help that we may scape. Chaucer. 
One who has narrowly escaped the gallows for his crimes. [Colloq.] Dickens. 
See 1st Scape. 
A mark left upon a stem or branch by the fall of a leaf, leaflet, or frond, or upon a seed by the separation of its support. See Illust. under Axillary. 
To mark with a scar or scars. Yet I'll not shed her blood; Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow. Shak. His cheeks were deeply scarred. Macaulay. 
To form a scar. 
An isolated or protruding rock; a steep, rocky eminence; a bare place on the side of a mountain or steep bank of earth. [Written also scaur.] O sweet and far, from cliff and scar, The horns of Elfland faintly blowing. Tennyson. 
A marine food fish, the scarus, or parrot fish. 
An offset where a wall or bank of earth, etc., retreats, leaving a shelf or footing. 
A shard or fragment. [Obs.] 
To frighten; to strike with sudden fear; to alarm. The noise of thy crossbow Will scare the herd, and so my shoot is lost. Shak. To scare away, to drive away by frightening. -- To scare up, to find by search, as if by beating for game. [Slang] 
Fright; esp., sudden fright produced by a trifling cause, or originating in mistake. [Colloq.] 
A cormorant. [Scot.] 
An article of dress of a light and decorative character, worn loosely over the shoulders or about the neck or the waist; a light shawl or handkerchief for the neck; also, a cravat; a neckcloth. Put on your hood and scarf. Swift. With care about the banners, scarves, and staves. R. Browning. 
See Epidermis. 
Dung. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray. Scarn bee (Zoöl.), a dung beetle. 
A band in the same position as the bend sinister, but only half as broad as the latter. 
The slope of the ditch nearest the parapet; the escarp. 
To cut down perpendicularly, or nearly so; as, to scarp the face of a ditch or a rock. From scarped cliff and quarried stone. Tennyson. Sweep ruins from the scarped mountain. Emerson. 
Bearing scars or marks of wounds. 
Like a scar, or rocky eminence; containing scars. Holinshed. 
A Mediterranean food fish (Sparisoma scarus) od excellent quality and highly valued by the Romans; -- called also parrot fish. 
Barren land having only a thin coat of grass. [Prov. Eng.] 
Scarcely; hardly. [Obs. or Colloq.] Robynson (More's Utopia) 
Go away; begone; away; -- chiefly used in driving off a cat. 
A shower of rain. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
A kind of bit for the bridle of a horse; -- called also scatchmouth. Bailey. 
See Skate, for the foot. 
Harm; damage; injury; hurt; waste; misfortune. [Written also scathe.] But she was somedeal deaf, and that was skathe. Chaucer. Great mercy, sure, for to enlarge a thrall, Whose freedom shall thee turn to greatest scath. Spenser. Wherein Rome hath done you any scath, Let him make treble satisfaction. Shak. 
A scaup duck. See below. Scaup duck (Zoöl.), any one of several species of northern ducks of the genus Aythya, or Fuligula. The adult males are, in large part, black. The three North American species are: the greater scaup duck (Aythya marila, var. nearctica), called also broadbill, bluebill, blackhead, flock duck, flocking fowl, and raft duck; the lesser scaup duck (A. affinis), called also little bluebill, river broadbill, and shuffler; the tufted, or ring-necked, scaup duck (A. collaris), called also black jack, ringneck, ringbill, ringbill shuffler, etc. See Illust. of Ring-necked, under Ring- necked. The common European scaup, or mussel, duck (A.marila), closely resembles the American variety. 
A precipitous bank or rock; a scar. 
A choliamb. 
A mummy; a skeleton. [Obs.] olland. 
A preliminary sketch of the plot, or main incidents, of an opera. 
To exhibit as a scene; to make a scene of; to display. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft. 
By scent. [R.] Fuller. 
To discern; to perceive. [Obs.] 
Shade; shadow. [Obs.] 
See Shah. 
See Sheik. 
An outline or image universally applicable to a general conception, under which it is likely to be presented to the mind; as, five dots in a line are a schema of the number five; a preceding and succeeding event are a schema of cause and effect. 
A representation of the aspects of the celestial bodies for any moment o at a given event. A blue case, from which was drawn a scheme of nativity. Sir W. Scott. 
To make a scheme of; to plan; to design; to project; to plot. That wickedness which schemed, and executed, his destruction. G. Stuart. 
To form a scheme or schemes. 
An Egyptian or Persian measure of length, varying from thirthy- two to sixty stadia. 
Division or separation; specifically (Eccl.), permanent division or separation in the Christian church; breach of unity among people of the same religious faith; the offense of seeking to produce division in a church without justifiable cause. Set bounds to our passions by reason, to our errors by truth, and to our schisms by charity. Eikon Basilike. 
Any crystalline rock having a foliated structure (see Foliation) and hence admitting of ready division into slabs or slates. The common kinds are mica schist, and hornblendic schist, consisting chiefly of quartz with mica or hornblende and often feldspar. 
A scholium. [Obs.] Hooker. 
To write scholia; to annotate. [Obs.] 
A shoal; a multitude; as, a school of fish. 
A book used in schools for learning lessons. 
Black tourmaline. [Written also shorl.] 
Knowing; skillful. [Obs.] Cockeram. 
A skink. 
A slunk calf. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Of or pertaining to an optical arrangement for forming images in a darkened room, usually called scioptic ball. Scioptic ball (Opt.), the lens of a camera obscura mounted in a wooden ball which fits a socket in a window shutter so as to be readily turned, like the eye, to different parts of the landscape. 
Of or pertaining to the island Scio (Chio or Chios). -- n. 
Knowing; having knowledge. "Brutes may be and are scious." Coleridge. 
To cut; to penetrate. [Obs.] The wicked steel scised deep in his right side. Fairfax. 
To scrape (the club) on the ground, in a stroke, before hitting the ball; also, to make (a stroke) in that way. 
To prop; to scotch. [Prov. Eng.] 
The chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.] 
To show insolent ridicule or mockery; to manifest contempt by derisive acts or language; -- often with at. Thuth from his lips prevailed with double sway, And fools who came to scoff, remained to pray. Goldsmith. 
To treat or address with derision; to assail scornfully; to mock at. To scoff religion is ridiculously proud and immodest. Glanwill. 
Poke (Phytolacca decandra). 
See Scoley. [Obs.] 
To find fault or rail with rude clamor; to brawl; to utter harsh, rude, boisterous rebuke; to chide sharply or coarsely; -- often with at; as, to scold at a servant. Pardon me, lords, 't is the first time ever I was forced to scold. Shak. 
To chide with rudeness and clamor; to rate; also, to rebuke or reprove with severity. 
a. & n. from Scold, v. Scolding bridle, an iron frame. See Brank, n., 2. 
School. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To go to school; to study. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A protection for a light; a lantern or cased support for a candle; hence, a fixed hanging or projecting candlestick. Tapers put into lanterns or sconces of several-colored, oiled paper, that the wind might not annoy them. Evelyn. Golden sconces hang not on the walls. Dryden. 
A squinch. 
A cake, thinner than a bannock, made of wheat or barley or oat meal. [Written variously, scon, skone, skon, etc.] [Scot.] Burns. 
A spoon-shaped instrument, used in extracting certain substances or foreign bodies. 
The avocet; -- so called because it scoops up the mud to obtain food. 
To walk fast; to go quickly; to run hastily away. [Colloq. & Humorous, U.S.] 
Scopeloid. 
Barter. [Obs.] See Scorse. 
Burning; parching or shriveling with heat. -- Scorch"ing*ly, adv. -- Scorch"ing*ness, n. 
The original and entire draught, or its transcript, of a composition, with the parts for all the different instruments or voices written on staves one above another, so that they can be read at a glance; -- so called from the bar, which, in its early use, was drawn through all the parts. Moore (Encyc. of Music). In score (Mus.), having all the parts arranged and placed in juxtaposition. Smart. -- To quit scores, to settle or balance accounts; to render an equivalent; to make compensation. Does not the earth quit scores with all the elements in the noble fruits that issue from it South. 
To write down in proper order and arrangement; as, to score an overture for an orchestra. See Score, n., 9. 
One who, or that which, scores. 
Scoriaceous. E. A. Poe. 
The young of any gull. [Written also scaurie.] [prov. Eng.] 
To scoff; to act disdainfully. He said mine eyes were black and my hair black, And, now I remembered, scorned at me. Shak. 
Deserving scorn; paltry. [Obs.] 
Barter; exchange; trade. [Obs.] And recompensed them with a better scorse. Spenser. 
To deal for the purchase of anything; to practice barter. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A name for a horse. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A native or inhabitant of Scotland; a Scotsman, or Scotchman. 
A portion of money assessed or paid; a tax or contribution; a mulct; a fine; a shot. Scot and lot, formerly, a parish assessment laid on subjects according to their ability. [Eng.] Cowell. Now, a phrase for obligations of every kind regarded collectivelly. Experienced men of the world know very well that it is best to pay scot and lot as they go along. Emerson. 
Of or pertaining to Scotland, its language, or its inhabitants; Scottish. Scotch broom (Bot.), the Cytisus scoparius. See Broom. -- Scotch dipper, or Scotch duck (Zoöl.), the bufflehead; -- called also Scotch teal, and Scotchman. -- Scotch fiddle, the itch. [Low] Sir W. Scott. -- Scotch mist, a coarse, dense mist, like fine rain. -- Scotch nightingale (Zoöl.), the sedge warbler. [Prov. Eng.] -- Scotch pebble. See under pebble. -- Scotch pine (Bot.) See Riga fir. -- Scotch thistle (Bot.), a species of thistle (Onopordon acanthium); -- so called from its being the national emblem of the Scotch. 
To shoulder up; to prop or block with a wedge, chock, etc., as a wheel, to prevent its rolling or slipping. 
A chock, wedge, prop, or other support, to prevent slipping; as, a scotch for a wheel or a log on inclined ground. 
To cut superficially; to wound; to score. We have scotched the snake, not killed it. Shak. Scotched collops (Cookery), a dish made of pieces of beef or veal cut thin, or minced, beaten flat, and stewed with onion and other condiments; -- called also Scotch collops. [Written also scotcht collops.] 
A slight cut or incision; a score. Walton. 
Any one of several species of northern sea ducks of the genus Oidemia. 
To clothe or cover up. [Obs.] 
To clothe or cover up. [Obs.] 
A concave molding used especially in classical architecture. 
Scotland [Poetic] O Scotia! my dear, my native soil! Burns. 
Of or pertaining to the Scotch; Scotch; Scottish; as, Scots law; a pound Scots (1s. 8d.). 
To pass swiftly over; to brush along; to traverse or search thoroughly; as, to scour the coast. Not so when swift Camilla scours the plain. Pope. Scouring barrel, a tumbling barrel. See under Tumbling. -- Scouring cinder (Metal.), a basic slag, which attacks the lining of a shaft furnace. Raymond. -- Scouring rush. (Bot.) See Dutch rush, under Dutch. -- Scouring stock (Woolen Manuf.), a kind of fulling mill. 
Diarrhoea or dysentery among cattle. 
A sailor's dish. Bread scouse contains no meat; lobscouse contains meat, etc. See Lobscouse. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
A swift sailing boat. [Obs.] So we took a scout, very much pleased with the manner and conversation of the passengers. Pepys. 
A projecting rock. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
To reject with contempt, as something absurd; to treat with ridicule; to flout; as, to scout an idea or an apology. "Flout 'em and scout 'em." Shak. 
A fielder in a game for practice. 
To go on the business of scouting, or watching the motions of an enemy; to act as a scout. With obscure wing Scout far and wide into the realm of night. Milton. 
A mop for sweeping ovens; a malkin. 
A large flat-bottomed boat, having broad, square ends. 
To transport in a scow. 
In a scowling manner. 
Quality or state of being scragged. 
The crisp substance that remains after trying out animal fat; as, pork scraps. 
One who gathers and hoards money in trifling sums; a miser. 
To scratch. [Obs.] Burton. 
To rake; to search. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag. 
An hermaphrodite. [Obs.] Skinner. 
A turf. [Obs.] Swift. 
See Crawl. [Obs.] Latimer. 
To draw or mark awkwardly and irregularly; to write hastily and carelessly; to scratch; to scribble; as, to scrawl a letter. His name, scrawled by himself. Macaulay. 
To write unskillfully and inelegantly. Though with a golden pen you scrawl. Swift. 
Unskillful or inelegant writing; that which is unskillfully or inelegantly written. The left will make such a scrawl, that it will not be legible. Arbuthnot. You bid me write no more than a scrawl to you. Gray. 
A tern; the sea swallow. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also sgraye.] 
To utter suddenly a sharp, shrill sound; to screech; to creak, as a door or wheel. 
A creaking; a screech; a shriek. Bp. Bull. 
To cry out with a shrill voice; to utter a sudden, sharp outcry, or shrill, loud cry, as in fright or extreme pain; to shriek; to screech. I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry. Shak. And scream thyself as none e'er screamed before. Pope. 
A sharp, shrill cry, uttered suddenly, as in terror or in pain; a shriek; a screech. "Screams of horror." Pope. 
A pebble; a stone; also, a heap of stones or rocky débris. [Prov. Eng.] Southey. 
A dwarf wall or partition carried up to a certain height for separation and protection, as in a church, to separate the aisle from the choir, or the like. 
The refuse left after screening sand, coal, ashes, etc. 
A straight line in space with which a definite linear magnitude termed the pitch is associated (cf. 5th Pitch, 10 (b)). It is used to express the displacement of a rigid body, which may always be made to consist of a rotation about an axis combined with a translation parallel to that axis. 
Adapted for forming a screw by cutting; as, a screw-cutting lathe. 
A writer and doctor of the law; one skilled in the law and traditions; one who read and explained the law to the people. 
To cut (anything) in such a way as to fit closely to a somewhat irregular surface, as a baseboard to a floor which is out of level, a board to the curves of a molding, or the like; -- so called because the workman marks, or scribe, with the compasses the line that he afterwards cuts. 
To make a mark. With the separated points of a pair of spring dividers scribe around the edge of the templet. A. M. Mayer. 
A screed; a shred; a fragment. [R.] 
Thin canvas glued on the inside of panels to prevent shrinking, checking, etc. 
To make too small or short; to limit or straiten; to put on short allowance; to scant; to contract; to shorten; as, to scrimp the pattern of a coat. 
Short; scanty; curtailed. 
A pinching miser; a niggard. [U.S.] 
A chest, bookcase, or other place, where writings or curiosities are deposited; a shrine. [Obs.] But laid them up in immortial scrine. Spenser. 
To cringe. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 
A small bag; a wallet; a satchel. [Archaic] Chaucer. And in requital ope his leathern scrip. Milton. 
The contents of a scrip, or wallet. [Obs.] Shak. 
Type made in imitation of handwriting. 
Writing; document; scroll. [Obs.] "Of every scrit and bond." Chaucer. 
A stunted shrub, bush, or branch. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
An ornament formed of undulations giving off spirals or sprays, usually suggestive of plant form. Roman architectural ornament is largely of some scroll pattern. 
A mean fellow; a wretch. [Obs.] hak. 
To rub hard; to wash with rubbing; usually, to rub with a wet brush, or with something coarse or rough, for the purpose of cleaning or brightening; as, to scrub a floor, a doorplate. 
To rub anything hard, especially with a wet brush; to scour; hence, to be diligent and penurious; as, to scrub hard for a living. 
One of the commen live stock of a region of no particular breed or not of pure breed, esp. when inferior in size, etc. [U.S.] Scrub bird (Zoöl.), an Australian passerine bird of the family Atrichornithidæ, as Atrichia clamosa; -- called also brush bird. -- Scrub oak (Bot.), the popular name of several dwarfish species of oak. The scrub oak of New England and the Middle States is Quercus ilicifolia, a scraggy shrub; that of the Southern States is a small tree (Q. Catesbæi); that of the Rocky Mountain region is Q. undulata, var. Gambelii. -- Scrub robin (Zoöl.), an Australian singing bird of the genus Drymodes. 
Mean; dirty; contemptible; scrubby. How solitary, how scrub, does this town lokk! Walpole. No little scrub joint shall come on my board. Swift. Scrub game, a game, as of ball, by unpracticed players. -- Scrub race, a race between scrubs, or between untrained animals or contestants. 
Scurf. [Obs.] 
The nape of the neck; the loose outside skin, as of the back of the neck. 
To squeeze, compress, crush, or bruise. [Obs. or Low] Spenser. 
To descry. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A flock of wild fowl. 
A cry or shout. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. 
To be driven swiftly, or to run, before a gale, with little or no sail spread. 
To pass over quickly. [R.] Shenstone. 
A small flight of larks, or other birds, less than a flock. [Prov. Eng.] 
The back part of the neck; the scruff. [Prov. Eng.] Ld. Lytton. 
To walk without lifting the feet; to proceed with a scraping or dragging movement; to shuffle. 
To hide. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A place of shelter; the declivity of a hill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
The skull. [Obs.] 
A shoal of fish. Milton. 
The common skua gull. [Prov. Eng.] 
To impel (a boat) with a pair of sculls, or with a single scull or oar worked over the stern obliquely from side to side. 
To impel a boat with a scull or sculls. 
To sculpture; to carve; to engrave. [Obs. or Humorous.] Sandys. 
To form a scum; to become covered with scum. Also used figuratively. Life, and the interest of life, have stagnated and scummed over. A. K. H. Boyd. 
Covered with scum; of the nature of scum. Sir P. Sidney. 
A swing. [Local, U.S.] 
A marine sparoid food fish (Stenotomus chrysops, or S. argyrops), common on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It appears bright silvery when swimming in the daytime, but shows broad blackish transverse bands at night and when dead. Called also porgee, paugy, porgy, scuppaug. 
To move hastily; to scour. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Minute membranous scales on the surface of some leaves, as in the goosefoot. Gray. 
The bull trout. [Prov. Eng.] 
Having or producing scurf; covered with scurf; resembling scurf. 
To hasten away or along; to move rapidly; to hurry; as, the rabbit scurried away. 
Act of scurring; hurried movement. 
A disease characterized by livid spots, especially about the thighs and legs, due to extravasation of blood, and by spongy gums, and bleeding from almost all the mucous membranes. It is accompanied by paleness, languor, depression, and general debility. It is occasioned by confinement, innutritious food, and hard labor, but especially by lack of fresh vegetable food, or confinement for a long time to a limited range of food, which is incapable of repairing the waste of the system. It was formerly prevalent among sailors and soldiers. Scurvy grass Etym: [Scurvy + grass; or cf. Icel. skarfakal scurvy grass.] (Bot.) A kind of cress (Cochlearia officinalis) growing along the seacoast of Northern Europe and in arctic regions. It is a remedy for the scurvy, and has proved a valuable food to arctic explorers. The name is given also to other allied species of plants. 
The tail of a hare, or of a deer, or other animal whose tail is short, sp. when carried erect; hence, sometimes, the animal itself. "He ran like a scut." Skelton. How the Indian hare came to have a long tail, wheras that part in others attains no higher than a scut. Sir T. Browne. My doe with the black scut. Shak. 
See Scutum. 
Of or pertaining to a shield. A good example of these scutal monstrosities. Cussans. 
Emblazoned on or as a shield. Scutcheoned panes in cloisters old. Lowell. 
A bony scale of a reptile or fish; a large horny scale on the leg of a bird, or on the belly of a snake. 
An oblong shield made of boards or wickerwork covered with leather, with sometimes an iron rim; -- carried chiefly by the heavy- armed infantry. 
Arm scye, a cutter's term for the armhole or part of the armhole of the waist of a garnment. [Cant] 
To hide; to secrete; to conceal. [Obs.] 
A dangerous rock on the Italian coast opposite the whirpool Charybdis on the coast of Sicily, -- both personified in classical literature as ravenous monsters. The passage between them was formerly considered perilous; hence, the saying "Between Scylla and Charybdis," signifying a great peril on either hand. 
See Scyphus, 2 (b). 
A scythe-shaped blade attached to ancient war chariots. 
To cut with a scythe; to cut off as with a scythe; to mow. [Obs.] Time had not scythed all that youth begun. Shak. 
Disdain. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To disdain. [Obs.] But either sdeigns with other to partake. Spenser. 
A great brazen laver in the temple at Jerusalem; -- so called from its size. He made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in compass, and five cubits the height thereof. 2 Chron. iv. 2. 
A Jewish dry measure containing one third of an an ephah. 
Soap prepared for use in milling cloth. 
Any aquatic carnivorous mammal of the families Phocidæ and Otariidæ. 
To affix one's seal, or a seal. [Obs.] I will seal unto this bond. Shak. 
One who seals; especially, an officer whose duty it is to seal writs or instruments, to stamp weights and measures, or the like. 
A mariner or a vessel engaged in the business of capturing seals. 
Grease; tallow; lard. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Shak. Dryden. 
A thin layer or stratum; a narrow vein between two thicker strata; as, a seam of coal. 
To become ridgy; to crack open. Later their lips began to parch and seam. L. Wallace. 
A denomination of weight or measure. Specifically: (a) The quantity of eight bushels of grain. "A seam of oats." P. Plowman. (b) The quantity of 120 pounds of glass. [Eng.] 
A merman; the male of the mermaid. [R.] "Not to mention mermaids or seamen." Locke. 
One whose occupation is to assist in the management of ships at sea; a mariner; a sailor; -- applied both to officers and common mariners, but especially to the latter. Opposed to landman, or landsman. Able seaman, a sailor who is practically conversant with all the duties of common seamanship. -- ordinary seaman. See Ordinary. 
Out of condition; not in good condition; -- said of a hawk. 
Having a seam; containing seams, or showing them. "Many a seamy scar." Burns. Everything has its fair, as well as its seamy, side. Sir W. Scott. 
A seine. See Seine. [Prov. Eng.] 
A session, as of some public body; especially, a meeting of spiritualists to receive spirit communication, so called. 
See Sepoy. 
The catch in a gunlock by which the hammer is held cocked or half cocked. Sear spring, the spring which causes the sear to catch in the notches by which the hammer is held. 
A fine sieve. [Obs.] 
To sift; to bolt. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
To seek; to look for something; to make inquiry, exploration, or examination; to hunt. Once more search with me. Shak. It sufficeth that they have once with care sifted the matter, and searched into all the particulars. Locke. 
The act of seeking or looking for something; quest; inquiry; pursuit for finding something; examination. Thus the orb he roamed With narrow search, and with inspection deep Considered every creature. Milton. Nor did my search of liberty begin Till my black hairs were changed upon my chin. Dryden. Right of search (Mar. Law), the right of the lawfully commissioned cruisers of belligerent nations to examine and search private merchant vessels on the high seas, for the enemy's property or for articles contraband of war. -- Search warrant (Law), a warrant legally issued, authorizing an examination or search of a house, or other place, for goods stolen, secreted, or concealed. 
Scorched; cauterized; hence, figuratively, insensible; not susceptible to moral influences. A seared conscience and a remorseless heart. Macaulay. 
Occurring in good time, in due season, or in proper time for the purpose; suitable to the season; opportune; timely; as, a seasonable supply of rain. Mercy is seasonable in the time of affliction. Ecclus. xxxv. 20. -- Sea"son*a*ble*ness, n. -- Sea"son*a*bly, adv. 
A part or surface on which another part or surface rests; as, a valve seat. Seat worm (Zoöl.), the pinworm. 
To rest; to lie down. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A rush. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Overgrown with rushes. [Prov. Eng.] 
The eleventh month of the ancient Hebrew year, approximately corresponding with February. W. Smith (Bibl. Dict. ). 
A salt of sebacic acid. 
See Sebacic. [Obs.] 
A genus of cereal grasses including rye. 
Cutting; divivding into two parts; as, a secant line. 
A line that cuts another; especially, a straight line cutting a curve in two or more points. 
Dry. Secco painting, or Painting in secco, painting on dry plaster, as distinguished from fresco painting, which is on wet or fresh plaster. 
To withdraw from fellowship, communion, or association; to separate one's self by a solemn act; to draw off; to retire; especially, to withdraw from a political or religious body. 
To secrete; as, mucus secerned in the nose. Arbuthnot. 
Retirement; retreat; secession. [Obs.] R. H. More. 
To seek. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Barren; unprofitable. See Rent seck, under Rent. 
A small reddish brown sweet and juicy pear. It originated on a farm near Philadelphia, afterwards owned by a Mr. Seckel. 
A century. [Obs.] Hammond. 
An article of merchandise of a grade inferior to the best; esp., a coarse or inferior kind of flour. 
The state of being secondary. Full of a girl's sweet sense of secondariness to the object of her love. Mrs. Oliphant. 
Secret; secretive; faithful to a secret. [Obs.] To be holden stable and secre. Chaucer. 
A secret. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The parts which modesty and propriety require to be concealed; the genital organs. In secret, in a private place; in privacy or secrecy; in a state or place not seen; privately. Bread eaten in secret is pleasant. Prov. ix. 17. 
To keep secret. [Obs.] Bacon. 
A cutting; a scion. [Obs.] Shak. 
Those following a particular leader or authority, or attached to a certain opinion; a company or set having a common belief or allegiance distinct from others; in religion, the believers in a particular creed, or upholders of a particular practice; especially, in modern times, a party dissenting from an established church; a denomination; in philosophy, the disciples of a particular master; a school; in society and the state, an order, rank, class, or party. He beareth the sign of poverty, And in that sect our Savior saved all mankind. Piers Plowman. As of the sect of which that he was born, He kept his lay, to which that he was sworn. Chaucer. The cursed sect of that detestable and false prophet Mohammed. Fabyan. As concerning this sect [Christians], we know that everywhere it is spoken against. Acts xxviii. 22. 
A part of a circle comprehended between two radii and the included arc. 
Arranged on one side only, as flowers or leaves on a stalk. Gray. 
In a secure manner; without fear or apprehension; without danger; safely. His daring foe . . . securely him defied. Milton. 
A portable chair or covered vehicle for carrying a single person, -- usually borne on poles by two men. Called also sedan chair. 
Undisturbed by passion or caprice; calm; tranquil; serene; not passionate or giddy; composed; staid; as, a sedate soul, mind, or temper. Disputation carries away the mind from that calm and sedate temper which is so necessary to contemplate truth. I. Watts. Whatsoever we feel and know Too sedate for outward show. Wordsworth. 
Sitting; inactive; quiet. [R.] 
Any plant of the genus Carex, perennial, endogenous herbs, often growing in dense tufts in marshy places. They have triangular jointless stems, a spiked inflorescence, and long grasslike leaves which are usually rough on the margins and midrib. There are several hundred species. 
Made or composed of sedge. With your sedged crowns and ever-harmless looks. Shak. 
Overgrown with sedge. On the gentle Severn''s sedgy bank. Shak. 
One who, or that which, seduces; specifically, one who prevails over the chastity of a woman by enticements and persuasions. He whose firm faith no reason could remove, Will melt before that soft seducer, love. Dryden. 
A genus of plants, mostly perennial, having succulent leaves and cymose flowers; orpine; stonecrop. Gray. 
A full-grown male fur seal. [Alaska] 
The generative fluid of the male; semen; sperm; -- not used in the plural. 
A sweet cake or cooky containing aromatic seeds, as caraway. Tusser. 
One who, or that which, sows or plants seed. 
(but originally a present participle). In view of the fact (that); considering; taking into account (that); insmuch as; since; because; -- followed by a dependent clause; as, he did well, seeing that he was so young. Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me Gen. xxvi. 27. 
Sick. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To make search or inquiry: to endeavor to make discovery. Seek ye out of the book of the Lord, and read. Isa. xxxiv. 16. To seek, needing to seek or search; hence, unpreparated. "Unpracticed, unpreparated, and still to seek." Milton. [Obs] -- To seek after, to make pursuit of; to attempt to find or take. -- To seek for, to endeavor to find. -- To seek to, to apply to; to resort to; to court. [Obs.] "All the earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom." 1. Kings x. 24. -- To seek upon, to make strict inquiry after; to follow up; to persecute. [Obs.] To seek Upon a man and do his soul unrest. Chaucer. 
One of a small heterogeneous sect of the 17th century, in Great Britain, who professed to be seeking the true church, ministry, and sacraments. A skeptic [is] ever seeking and never finds, like our new upstart sect of Seekers. Bullokar. 
To close the eyes of (a hawk or other bird) by drawing through the lids threads which were fastened over the head. Bacon. Fools climbs to fall: fond hopes, like seeled doves for want of better light, mount till they end their flight with falling. J. Reading. 
To incline to one side; to lean; to roll, as a ship at sea. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 
In a silly manner. [Obs.] 
See Silly. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To appear, or to appear to be; to have a show or semblance; to present an appearance; to look; to strike one's apprehension or fancy as being; to be taken as. "It now seemed probable." Macaulay. Thou picture of what thou seem'st. Shak. All seemed well pleased; all seemed, but were not all. Milton. There is a way which seemeth right unto a man; but the end thereof are the ways of death. Prov. xiv. 12. It seems, it appears; it is understood as true; it is said. A prince of Italy, it seems, entertained his misstress on a great lake. Addison. 
To befit; to beseem. [Obs.] Spenser. 
One who seems; one who carries or assumes an appearance or semblance. Hence shall we see, If power change purpose, what our seemers be. Shak. 
Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character; suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous. He had a seemly nose. Chaucer. I am a woman, lacking wit To make a seemly answer to such persons. Shak. Suspense of judgment and exercise of charity were safer and seemlier for Christian men than the hot pursuit of these controversies. Hooker. 
In a decent or suitable manner; becomingly. Suddenly a men before him stood, Not rustic as before, but seemlier clad, As one in city or court or place bred. Milton. 
of See. 
Versed; skilled; accomplished. [Obs.] Well seen in every science that mote be. Spenser. Noble Boyle, not less in nature seen, Than his great brother read in states and men. Dryden. 
Sore; painful. [Prov. Eng.] Ray. 
One who sees. Addison. 
A person who foresees events; a prophet. Milton. 
Same as Crossruff. 
To move with a reciprocating motion; to move backward and forward, or upward and downward. 
To cause to move backward and forward in seesaw fashion. He seesaws himself to and fro. Ld. Lytton. 
Moving up and down, or to and fro; having a reciprocating motion. 
Sate; sat. Chaucer. 
imp. of Seethe. Chaucer. 
To decoct or prepare for food in hot liquid; to boil; as, to seethe flesh. [Written also seeth.] Set on the great pot, and seethe pottage for the sons of the prophets. 2 Kings iv. 38. 
To be a state of ebullition or violent commotion; to be hot; to boil. 1 Sam. ii. 13. A long Pointe, round which the Mississippi used to whirl, and seethe, and foam. G. W. Cable. 
A castrated bull. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 
See Cigar. 
A case or holder made of fire clay, in which fine pottery is inclosed while baking in the kin. [Written also saggar, sagger, and segger.] Ure. 
The hedge sparrow. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A sign. See Al segno, and Dal segno. 
A liliaceous plant (Calochortus Nuttallii) of Western North America, and its edible bulb; -- so called by the Ute Indians and the Mormons. 
A descendant of Mohammed through his daughter Fatima and nephew Ali. 
obs. imp. sing. of See. Saw. Chaucer. 
A large net, one edge of which is provided with sinkers, and the other with floats. It hangs vertically in the water, and when its ends are brought together or drawn ashore incloses the fish. Seine boat, a boat specially constructed to carry and pay out a seine. 
One who fishes with a seine. 
A girdle. [Obs.] "Girt with a seint of silk." Chaucer. 
A saint. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Seize. Spenser. 
See Seizin. Spenser. 
Something peculiar to one's self. [R.] Tatler. 
To take possession of by virtue of a warrant or other legal authority; as, the sheriff seized the debtor's goods. 
One who, or that which, seizes. 
Possession; possession of an estate of froehold. It may be either in deed or in law; the former when there is actual possession, the latter when there is a right to such possession by construction of law. In some of the United States seizin means merely ownership. Burrill. 
One who seizes, or takes possession. 
To separate. [Obs.] 
Sick. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To seek. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A place in a pagan temple in which the images of the deities were inclosed. 
A word of doubtful meaning, occuring frequently in the Psalms; by some, supposed to signify silence or a pause in the musical performance of the song. Beyond the fact that Selach is a musical term, we know absolutely nothing about it. Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.) 
Rare; uncommon; unusual. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
Rarely; seldom. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Seldom. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Rarely; not often; not frequently. Wisdom and youth are seldom joined in one. Hooker. 
Rare; infrequent. [Archaic.] "A suppressed and seldom anger." Jer. Taylor. 
Taken from a number by preferance; picked out as more valuable or exellent than others; of special value or exellence; nicely chosen; selected; choice. A few select spirits had separated from the crowd, and formed a fit audience round a far greater teacher. Macaulay. 
To choose and take from a number; to take by preference from among others; to pick out; to cull; as, to select the best authors for perusal. "One peculiar nation to select." Milton. The pious chief . . . A hundred youths from all his train selects. Dryden. 
Same; particular; very; identical. [Obs., except in the compound selfsame.] "On these self hills." Sir. W. Raleigh. To shoot another arrow that self way Which you did shoot the first. Shak. At that self moment enters Palamon. Dryden. 
Humbled by consciousness of inferiority, unworthiness, guilt, or shame. 
A short piece of land in arable ridges and furrows, of uncertain quantity; also, a ridge of land lying between two furrows. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Self. [Obs. or Scot.] B. Jonson. 
A sill. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A cell; a house. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An imposition; a cheat; a hoax. [Colloq.] 
One who sells. Chaucer. 
Self; same. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
pl. of Self. 
Silly. [Obs.] Chaucer. Wyclif. 
It seems; -- chiefly used impersonally in reports and judgments to express an opinion in reference to the law on some point not necessary to be decided, and not intended to be definitely settled in the cause. 
Like; resembling. [Obs.] T. Hudson. 
Sprinkled or sown; -- said of field, or a charge, when strewed or covered with small charges. 
A daughter of Cadmus, and by Zeus mother of Bacchus. 
The seed of plants. 
A fasciole of a spatangoid sea urchin. 
One belonging to the Semitic race. Also used adjectively. [Written also Shemite.] 
Always; throughout; as, sempre piano, always soft. 
A Japanese coin, worth about one half of a cent. 
Since. [Obs.] 
Of six; belonging to six; containing six. Dr. H. More. 
A body of elders appointed or elected from among the nobles of the nation, and having supreme legislative authority. The senate was thus the medium through which all affairs of the whole government had to pass. Dr. W. Smith. 
To pitch; as, the ship sends forward so violently as to endanger her masts. Totten. To send for, to request or require by message to come or be brought. 
The impulse of a wave by which a vessel is carried bodily. [Written also scend.] W. C. Russell. "The send of the sea". Longfellow. 
A light thin stuff of silk. [Written also cendal, and sendal.] Chaucer. Wore she not a veil of twisted sendal embroidered with silver Sir W. Scott. 
One who sends. Shak. 
Seneca root. 
To singe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to old age; proceeding from, or characteristic of, old age; affected with the infirmities of old age; as, senile weakness. "Senile maturity of judgment." Boyle. Senile gangrene (Med.), a form of gangrene occuring particularly in old people, and caused usually by insufficient blood supply due to degeneration of the walls of the smaller arteries. 
The quality or state of being senior. 
The leaves of several leguminous plants of the genus Cassia. (C. acutifolia. C. angustifolia, etc.). They constitute a valuable but nauseous cathartic medicine. 
A signal call on a trumpet or cornet for entrance or exit on the stage. [Obs.] 
The barracuda. 
A braided cord or fabric formed by plaiting together rope yarns or other small stuff. 
Since. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A faculty, possessed by animals, of perceiving external objects by means of impressions made upon certain organs (sensory or sense organs) of the body, or of perceiving changes in the condition of the body; as, the senses of sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch. See Muscular sense, under Muscular, and Temperature sense, under Temperature. Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep. Shak. What surmounts the reach Of human sense I shall delineate. Milton. The traitor Sense recalls The soaring soul from rest. Keble. 
To perceive by the senses; to recognize. [Obs. or Colloq.] Is he sure that objects are not otherwise sensed by others than they are by him Glanvill. 
Sensory; as, the sensor nerves. 
See Scent, v. & n. [Obs.] Spenser. 
obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Send, for sendeth. 
imp. & p. p. of Send. 
A soldier placed on guard; a sentinel. 
Without; as, senza stromenti, without instruments. 
A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or Sir; also, a gentleman. 
A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady. 
A leaf or division of the calyx. 
See Supawn. [Local, U.S.] 
A large sting ray of the genus Trygon, especially T. sephen of the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea. The skin is an article of commerce. 
Of a dark brown color, with a little red in its composition; also, made of, or done in, sepia. 
Of or pertaining to sepia; done in sepia; as, a sepic drawing. 
See Supawn. [Local, U.S.] 
To set apart. [Obs.] Donne. 
A native of India employed as a soldier in the service of a European power, esp. of Great Britain; an Oriental soldier disciplined in the European manner. 
A soluble poison (ptomaine) present in putrid blood. It is also formed in the putrefaction of proteid matter in general. 
The poisoning of the system by the introduction of putrescent material into the blood. 
A clan, tribe, or family, proceeding from a common progenitor; -- used especially of the ancient clans in Ireland. The chief, struck by the illustration, asked at once to be baptized, and all his sept followed his example. S. Lover. 
Of or pertaining to a septum or septa, as of a coral or a shell. 
Of the seventh degree or order. -- n. (Alg.) 
A substance that promotes putrefaction. 
A partition that separates the cells of a fruit. 
One who, or that which, follows. Specifically: (a) An adherent, or a band or sect of adherents. "Coleridge and his sequela." G. P. Marsh. (b) That which follows as the logical result of reasoning; inference; conclusion; suggestion. Sequelæ, or thoughts suggested by the preceding aphorisms. Coleridge. (c) (Med.) 
An old gold coin of Italy and Turkey. It was first struck at Venice about the end of the 13th century, and afterward in the other Italian cities, and by the Levant trade was introduced into Turkey. It is worth about 9s. 3d. sterling, or about $2.25. The different kinds vary somewhat in value. [Written also chequin, and zequin.] 
A pinnacle of ice among the crevasses of a glacier; also, one of the blocks into which a glacier breaks on a steep grade. 
A palace; a seraglio; also, in the East, a place for the accommodation of travelers; a caravansary, or rest house. 
The boatswain of a Lascar or East Ondian crew. 
A blanket or shawl worn as an outer garment by the Spanish Americans, as in Mexico. 
One of an order of celestial beings, each having three pairs of wings. In ecclesiastical art and in poetry, a seraph is represented as one of a class of angels. Isa. vi. 2. As full, as perfect, in vile man that mourns, As the rapt seraph that adores and burns. Pope. Seraph moth (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of geometrid moths of the genus Lobophora, having the hind wings deeply bilobed, so that they seem to have six wings. 
Dry; withered. Same as Sear. But with its sound it shook the sails That were so thin and sere. Coleridge. 
Claw; talon. [Obs.] Chapman. 
A mist, or very fine rain, which sometimes falls from a clear sky a few moments after sunset. Tyndall. 
Evening air; night chill. [Obs.] "Some serene blast me." B. Jonson. 
To make serene. Heaven and earth, as if contending, vie To raise his being, and serene his soul. Thomson. 
A servant or slave employed in husbandry, and in some countries attached to the soil and transferred with it, as formerly in Russia. In England, at least from the reign of Henry II, one only, and that the inferior species [of villeins], existed . . . But by the customs of France and Germany, persons in this abject state seem to have been called serfs, and distinguished from villeins, who were only bound to fixed payments and duties in respect of their lord, though, as it seems, without any legal redress if injured by him. Hallam. 
A woolen twilled stuff, much used as material for clothing for both sexes. Silk serge, a twilled silk fabric used mostly by tailors for lining parts of gentlemen's coats. 
A large wax candle used in the ceremonies of various churches. 
Of or pertaining to rows. Gray. Serial homology. (Biol.) See under Homology. -- Serial symmetry. (Biol.) See under Symmetry. 
A publication appearing in a series or succession of part; a tale, or other writing, published in successive numbers of a periodical. 
Series. [Obs.] 
Any comprehensive group of animals or plants including several subordinate related groups. 
A European finch (Serinus hortulanus) closely related to the canary. 
A white crystalline nitrogenous substance obtained by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on silk gelatin. 
See Ceriph. 
To speak; to discourse; to compose or deliver a sermon. [Obs.] Holinshed. What needeth it to sermon of it more Chaucer. 
A sermonizer. B. Jonson. 
Serous. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
The thar. 
A basket. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
To crowd, press, or drive together. [Obs.] Bacon. 
To crowd; to press together. 
The treatment of disease by the injection of blood serum from immune animals. 
An African wild cat (Felis serval) of moderate size. It has rather long legs and a tail of moderate length. Its color is tawny, with black spots on the body and rings of black on the tail. 
To lead off in delivering (the ball). 
To lead off in delivering the ball. 
Of or pertaining to Servia, a kingdom of Southern Europe. -- n. 
A series. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Either of two annual herbaceous plants of the genus Sesamum (S. Indicum, and S. orientale), from the seeds of which an oil is expressed; also, the small obovate, flattish seeds of these plants, sometimes used as food. See Benne. Open Sesame, the magical command which opened the door of the robber's den in the Arabian Nights' tale of "The Forty Thieves;" hence, a magical password. -- Sesame grass. (Bot.) Same as Gama grass. 
A leguminous shrub (Sesbania aculeata) which furnishes a fiber used for making ropes. 
To lay a tax upon; to assess. [Obs.] 
A tax; an assessment. See Cess. [Obs.] 
Hurry; run. [Obs.] Shak. 
A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; a sextet; -- called also sestuor. [Written also sestett, sestette.] 
To compose; to arrange in words, lines, etc.; as, to set type; to set a page. To set abroach. See Abroach. [Obs.] Shak. -- To set against, to oppose; to set in comparison with, or to oppose to, as an equivalent in exchange; as, to set one thing against another. -- To set agoing, to cause to move. -- To set apart, to separate to a particular use; to separate from the rest; to reserve. -- To set a saw, to bend each tooth a little, every alternate one being bent to one side, and the intermediate ones to the other side, so that the opening made by the saw may be a little wider than the thickness of the back, to prevent the saw from sticking. -- To set aside. (a) To leave out of account; to pass by; to omit; to neglect; to reject; to annul. Setting aside all other considerations, I will endeavor to know the truth, and yield to that. Tillotson. (b) To set apart; to reserve; as, to set aside part of one's income. (c) (Law) See under Aside. -- To set at defiance, to defy. -- To set at ease, to quiet; to tranquilize; as, to set the heart at ease. -- To set at naught, to undervalue; to contemn; to despise. "Ye have set at naught all my counsel." Prov. i. 25. -- To set a trap, snare, or gin, to put it in a proper condition or position to catch prey; hence, to lay a plan to deceive and draw another into one's power. -- To set at work, or To set to work. (a) To cause to enter on work or action, or to direct how tu enter on work. (b) To apply one's self; -- used reflexively. -- To set before. (a) To bring out to view before; to exhibit. (b) To propose for choice to; to offer to. -- To set by. (a) To set apart or on one side; to reject. (b) To attach the value of (anything) to. "I set not a straw by thy dreamings." Chaucer. -- To set by the compass, to observe and note the bearing or situation of by the compass. -- To set case, to suppose; to assume. Cf. Put case, under Put, v. t. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- To set down. (a) To enter in writing; to register. Some rules were to be set down for the government of the army. Clarendon. (b) To fix; to establish; to ordain. This law we may name eternal, being that order which God . . . hath set down with himself, for himself to do all things by. Hooker. (c) To humiliate. -- To set eyes on, to see; to behold; to fasten the eyes on. -- To set fire to, or To set on fire, to communicate fire to; fig., to inflame; to enkindle the passions of; to irritate. -- To set flying (Naut.), to hook to halyards, sheets, etc., instead of extending with rings or the like on a stay; -- said of a sail. -- To set forth. (a) To manifest; to offer or present to view; to exhibt; to display. (b) To publish; to promulgate; to make appear. Waller. (c) To send out; to prepare and send. [Obs.] The Venetian admiral had a fleet of sixty galleys, set forth by the Venetians. Knolles. -- To set forward. (a) To cause to advance. (b) To promote. -- To set free, to release from confinement, imprisonment, or bondage; to liberate; to emancipate. -- To set in, to put in the way; to begin; to give a start to. [Obs.] If you please to assist and set me in, I will recollect myself. Collier. -- To set in order, to adjust or arrange; to reduce to method. "The rest will I set in order when I come." 1 Cor. xi. 34. -- To set milk. (a) To expose it in open dishes in order that the cream may rise to the surface. (b) To cause it to become curdled as by the action of rennet. See 4 (e). -- To set much, or little, by, to care much, or little, for. -- To set of, to value; to set by. [Obs.] "I set not an haw of his proverbs." Chaucer. -- To set off. (a) To separate from a whole; to assign to a particular purpose; to portion off; as, to set off a portion of an estate. (b) To adorn; to decorate; to embellish. They . . . set off the worst faces with the best airs. Addison. (c) To give a flattering description of. -- To set off against, to place against as an equivalent; as, to set off one man's services against another's. -- To set on or upon. (a) To incite; to instigate. "Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this." Shak. (b) To employ, as in a task. " Set on thy wife to observe." Shak. (c) To fix upon; to attach strongly to; as, to set one's heart or affections on some object. See definition 2, above. -- To set one's cap for. See under Cap, n. -- To set one's self against, to place one's self in a state of enmity or opposition to. -- To set one's teeth, to press them together tightly. -- To set on foot, to set going; to put in motion; to start. -- To set out. (a) To assign; to allot; to mark off; to limit; as, to set out the share of each proprietor or heir of an estate; to set out the widow's thirds. (b) To publish, as a proclamation. [Obs.] (c) To adorn; to embellish. An ugly woman, in rich habit set out with jewels, nothing can become. Dryden. (d) To raise, equip, and send forth; to furnish. [R.] The Venetians pretend they could set out, in case of great necessity, thirty men-of-war. Addison. (e) To show; to display; to recommend; to set off. I could set out that best side of Luther. Atterbury. (f) To show; to prove. [R.] "Those very reasons set out how heinous his sin was." Atterbury. (g) (Law) To recite; to state at large. -- To set over. (a) To appoint or constitute as supervisor, inspector, ruler, or commander. (b) To assign; to transfer; to convey. -- To set right, to correct; to put in order. -- To set sail. (Naut.) See under Sail, n. -- To set store by, to consider valuable. -- To set the fashion, to determine what shall be the fashion; to establish the mode. -- To set the teeth on edge, to affect the teeth with a disagreeable sensation, as when acids are brought in contact with them. -- To set the watch (Naut.), to place the starboard or port watch on duty. -- To set to, to attach to; to affix to. "He . . . hath set to his seal that God is true." John iii. 33. -- To set up. (a) To erect; to raise; to elevate; as, to set up a building, or a machine; to set up a post, a wall, a pillar. (b) Hence, to exalt; to put in power. "I will . . . set up the throne of David over Israel." 2 Sam. iii. 10. (c) To begin, as a new institution; to institute; to establish; to found; as, to set up a manufactory; to set up a school. (d) To enable to commence a new business; as, to set up a son in trade. (e) To place in view; as, to set up a mark. (f) To raise; to utter loudly; as, to set up the voice. I'll set up such a note as she shall hear. Dryden. (g) To advance; to propose as truth or for reception; as, to set up a new opinion or doctrine. T. Burnet. (h) To raise from depression, or to a sufficient fortune; as, this good fortune quite set him up. (i) To intoxicate. [Slang] (j) (Print.) To put in type; as, to set up copy; to arrange in words, lines, etc., ready for printing; as, to set up type. -- To set up the rigging (Naut.), to make it taut by means of tackles. R. H. Dana, Jr. 
Permanent change of figure in consequence of excessive strain, as from compression, tension, bending, twisting, etc.; as, the set of a spring. (d) A kind of punch used for bending, indenting, or giving shape to, metal; as, a saw set. (e) (Pile Driving) 
Any slender, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ or part; as the hairs of a caterpillar, the slender spines of a crustacean, the hairlike processes of a protozoan, the bristles or stiff hairs on the leaves of some plants, or the pedicel of the capsule of a moss. 
See 2d Settee. 
obs. imp. pl. of Sit. Sat. Chaucer. 
See Since. [Obs.] 
See Sothic. 
See Shittim. 
A few silk threads or horsehairs, or a strip of linen or the like, introduced beneath the skin by a knife or needle, so as to form an issue; also, the issue so formed. 
A display, as of plate, equipage, etc.; that which is displayed. [Coloq.] Dickens. 
See Set, n., 2 (e) and 3. 
A long seat with a back, -- made to accommodate several persons at once. 
A vessel with a very long, sharp prow, carrying two or three masts with lateen sails, -- used in the Mediterranean. [Written also setee.] 
A hunting dog of a special breed originally derived from a cross between the spaniel and the pointer. Modern setters are usually trained to indicate the position of game birds by standing in a fixed position, but originally they indicated it by sitting or crouching. 
To cut the dewlap (of a cow or an ox), and to insert a seton, so as to cause an issue. [Prov. Eng.] 
The quality or state of being settled; confirmed state. [R.] Bp. Hall. 
A small, short hair or bristle; a small seta. 
A setula. 
One more than six; six and one added; as, seven days make one week. Seven sciences. See the Note under Science, n., 4. -- Seven stars (Astron.), the Pleiades. -- Seven wonders of the world. See under Wonders. -- Seven-year apple (Bot.), a rubiaceous shrub (Genipa clusiifolia) growing in the West Indies; also, its edible fruit. -- Seven-year vine (Bot.), a tropical climbing plant (Ipomoea tuberosa) related to the morning-glory. 
Repeated seven times; having seven thicknesses; increased to seven times the size or amount. "Sevenfold rage." Milton. 
To disunite; to disconnect; to terminate; as, to sever an estate in joint tenancy. Blackstone. 
Capable of being severed. Encyc. Dict. 
The quality or state of being severe. Specifically: -- (a) Gravity or austerity; extreme strictness; rigor; harshness; as, the severity of a reprimand or a reproof; severity of discipline or government; severity of penalties. "Strict age, and sour severity." Milton. (b) The quality or power of distressing or paining; extreme degree; extremity; intensity; inclemency; as, the severity of pain or anguish; the severity of cold or heat; the severity of the winter. (c) Harshness; cruel treatment; sharpness of punishment; as, severity practiced on prisoners of war. (d) Exactness; rigorousness; strictness; as, the severity of a test. Confining myself to the severity of truth. Dryden. 
A bay or compartment of a vaulted ceiling. [Written also civery.] 
Juice; gravy; a seasoned dish; a delicacy. [Obs.] Gower. I will not tell of their strange sewes. Chaucer. 
To follow; to pursue; to sue. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
To practice sewing; to work with needle and thread. 
To drain, as a pond, for taking the fish. [Obs.] Tusser. 
To perform the duties of a sewer. See 3d Sewer. [Obs.] 
A scarecrow, generally made of feathers tied to a string, hung up to prevent deer from breaking into a place. Halliwell. 
A British trout usually regarded as a variety (var. Cambricus) of the salmon trout. 
A small tortricid moth whose larva sews together the edges of a leaf by means of silk; as, the apple-leaf sewer (Phoxopteris nubeculana) 
A drain or passage to carry off water and filth under ground; a subterraneous channel, particularly in cities. 
Formerly, an upper servant, or household officer, who set on and removed the dishes at a feast, and who also brought water for the hands of the guests. Then the sewer Poured water from a great and golden ewer, That from their hands to a silver caldron ran. Chapman. 
Same as Sewen. 
A seamstress. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A person who is sixty years old. 
Belonging to sex; having sex; distinctively male of female; as, the sexed condition. 
Pertaining to sex. [R.] Should I ascribe any of these things unto myself or my sexly weakness, I were not worthy to live. Queen Elizabeth. 
A stanza of six lines; a sestine. 
Of the sixth degree or order. -- n. (Alg.) 
A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into six leaves. 
An under officer of a church, whose business is to take care of the church building and the vessels, vestments, etc., belonging to the church, to attend on the officiating clergyman, and to perform other duties pertaining to the church, such as to dig graves, ring the bell, etc. Sexton beetle (Zoöl.), a burying beetle. 
See Sacristy. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to sex, or the sexes; distinguishing sex; peculiar to the distinction and office of male or female; relating to the distinctive genital organs of the sexes; proceeding from, or based upon, sex; as, sexual characteristics; sexual intercourse, connection, or commerce; sexual desire; sexual diseases; sexual generation. Sexual dimorphism (Biol.), the condition of having one of the sexes existing in two forms, or varieties, differing in color, size, etc., as in many species of butterflies which have two kinds of females. -- Sexual method (Bot.), a method of classification proposed by Linnæus, founded mainly on difference in number and position of the stamens and pistils of plants. -- Sexual selection (Biol.), the selective preference of one sex for certain characteristics in the other, such as bright colors, musical notes, etc.; also, the selection which results from certain individuals of one sex having more opportunities of pairing with the other sex, on account of greater activity, strength, courage, etc.; applied likewise to that kind of evolution which results from such sexual preferences. Darwin. In these cases, therefore, natural selection seems to have acted independently of sexual selection. A. R. Wallace. 
of Senge, to singe. Chaucer. 
A gridle. See 1st Seint. [Obs.] 
The itch in animals; also, a scab. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
To play mean tricks; to act shabbily. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] 
To scratch; to rub. [Obs.] Farquhar. 
The saddlecloth or housing of a cavalry horse. 
A hound. [Obs.] 
Any one of several species of food fishes of the Herring family. The American species (Clupea sapidissima), which is abundant on the Atlantic coast and ascends the larger rivers in spring to spawn, is an important market fish. The European allice shad, or alose (C. alosa), and the twaite shad. (C. finta), are less important species. [Written also chad.] 
Rounded stones containing tin ore, lying at the surface of the ground, and indicating a vein. Raymond. 
obs. imp. of Shed. Chaucer. 
The darker portion of a picture; a less illuminated part. See Def. 1, above. 
Full of shade; shady. 
One who, or that which, shades. 
The quality or state of being shadowy. 
To hobble or limp; to shuffle. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] 
A rod at the end of a heddle. (j) (Mach.) A solid or hollow cylinder or bar, having one or more journals on which it rests and revolves, and intended to carry one or more wheels or other revolving parts and to transmit power or motion; as, the shaft of a steam engine. See Illust. of Countershaft. 
A kind of prepared tobacco cut fine. 
Hairy; shaggy. Shak. 
To make hairy or shaggy; hence, to make rough. Shag the green zone that bounds the boreal skies. J. Barlow. 
Rough with long hair or wool. About his shoulders hangs the shaggy skin. Dryden. 
The title of the supreme ruler in certain Eastern countries, especially Persia. [Written also schah.] Shah Nameh. Etym: [Per., Book of Kings.] A celebrated historical poem written by Firdousi, being the most ancient in the modern Persian language. Brande & C. 
A large and swift Asiatic falcon (Falco pregrinator) highly valued in falconry. 
See Sheik. 
To walk sidewise. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 
obs. p. p. of Shake. Chaucer. 
To give a tremulous tone to; to trill; as, to shake a note in music. 
To be agitated with a waving or vibratory motion; to tremble; to shiver; to quake; to totter. Under his burning wheels The steadfast empyrean shook throughout, All but the throne itself of God. Milton. What danger Who 's that that shakes behind there Beau & FL. Shaking piece, a name given by butchers to the piece of beef cut from the under side of the neck. See Illust. of Beef. 
A rapid alternation of a principal tone with another represented on the next degree of the staff above or below it; a trill. 
A variety of pigeon. P. J. Selby. 
A kind of military cap or headress. 
A fine-grained sedimentary rock of a thin, laminated, and often friable, structure. Bituminous shale. See under Bituminous. 
To take off the shell or coat of; to shell. Life, in its upper grades, was bursting its shell, or was shaling off its husk. I. Taylor. 
See Challis. 
See Shawm. [Obs.] Knolles. 
2d per. sing. of Shall. 
Resembling shale in structure. 
False; counterfeit; pretended; feigned; unreal; as, a sham fight. They scorned the sham independence proffered to them by the Athenians. Jowett (Thucyd) 
To make false pretenses; to deceive; to feign; to impose. Wondering . . . whether those who lectured him were such fools as they professed to be, or were only shamming. Macaulay. 
A saxicoline singing bird (Kittacincla macroura) of India, noted for the sweetness and power of its song. In confinement it imitates the notes of other birds and various animals with accuracy. Its head, neck, back, breast, and tail are glossy black, the rump white, the under parts chestnut. 
A priest of Shamanism; a wizard among the Shamanists. 
To be ashamed; to feel shame. [R.] I do shame To think of what a noble strain you are. Shak. 
One who, or that which, disgraces, or makes ashamed. Beau & Fl. 
The chamois. 
See Chank. 
The space between two channels of the Doric triglyph. Gwilt. 
To fall off, as a leaf, flower, or capsule, on account of disease affecting the supporting footstalk; -- usually followed by off. Darwin. 
The European smooth blenny (Blennius pholis). It is olive-green with irregular black spots, and without appendages on the head. 
Jaunty; showy. [Prov. Eng.] 
A small, mean dwelling; a rough, slight building for temporary use; a hut. 
To inhabit a shanty. S. H. Hammond. 
To suit; to be adjusted or conformable. [R.] Shak. 
Destitute of shape or regular form; wanting symmetry of dimensions; misshapen; -- opposed to Ant: shapely. -- Shape"less*ness, n. The shapeless rock, or hanging precipice. Pope. 
The oörial. 
Chaparajos. [Western U. S.] 
A plant; chard. [Obs.] Dryden. 
The hard wing case of a beetle. They are his shards, and he their beetle. Shak. 
Having, or consisting of, shards. 
To have part; to receive a portion; to partake, enjoy, or suffer with others. A right of inheritance gave every one a title to share in the goods of his father. Locke. 
One who shares; a participator; a partaker; also, a divider; a distributer. 
Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes of the order Plagiostomi, found in all seas. 
To pick or gather indiscriminately or covertly. [Obs.] Shak. 
One who lives by sharking. 
Uttered in a whisper, or with the breath alone, without voice, as certain consonants, such as p, k, t, f; surd; nonvocal; aspirated. 
Same as Middlings, 1. 
To raise above the proper pitch; to elevate the tone of; especially, to raise a half step, or semitone, above the natural tone. 
To sing above the proper pitch. 
A mountain peak, etc., in California. 
obs. p. p. of Shave. Chaucer. His beard was shave as nigh as ever he can. Chaucer. 
To use a razor for removing the beard; to cut closely; hence, to be hard and severe in a bargain; to practice extortion; to cheat. 
A man shaved; hence, a monk, or other religious; -- used in contempt. I am no longer a shaveling than while my frock is on my back. Sir W. Scott. 
A tool or machine for shaving. A note shaver, a person who buys notes at a discount greater than the legal rate of interest. [Cant, U.S.] 
The leaves and tops of vegetables, as of potatoes, turnips, etc. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
A square or oblong cloth of wool, cotton, silk, or other textile or netted fabric, used, especially by women, as a loose covering for the neck and shoulders. India shawl, a kind of rich shawl made in India from the wool of the Cashmere goat. It is woven in pieces, which are sewed together. -- Shawl goat (Zoöl.), the Cashmere goat. 
To wrap in a shawl. Thackeray. 
A wind instrument of music, formerly in use, supposed to have resembled either the clarinet or the hautboy in form. [Written also shalm, shaum.] Otway. Even from the shrillest shaum unto the cornamute. Drayton. 
A chaise. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 
A tithing, or division, in the Isle of Man, in which there is a coroner, or chief constable. The island is divided into six sheadings. 
A sheave. [R.] 
To gather and bind into a sheaf; to make into sheaves; as, to sheaf wheat. 
To collect and bind cut grain, or the like; to make sheaves. They that reap must sheaf and bind. Shak. 
Pertaining to, or consisting of, a sheaf or sheaves; resembling a sheaf. 
Same as Sheeling. [Scot.] 
To put under a sheal or shelter. [Scot.] 
To take the husks or pods off from; to shell; to empty of its contents, as a husk or a pod. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Jamieson. That's a shealed peascod. Shak. 
A shell or pod. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] 
To produce a change of shape in by a shear. See Shear, n., 4. 
An action, resulting from applied forces, which tends to cause two contiguous parts of a body to slide relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact; -- also called shearing stress, and tangential stress. 
To become more or less completely divided, as a body under the action of forces, by the sliding of two contiguous parts relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact. 
See Shard. [Obs.] 
Dung; excrement. [Obs.] [Written also shern.] Holland. 
The bedpiece of a machine tool, upon which a table or slide rest is secured; as, the shears of a lathe or planer. See Illust. under Lathe. Rotary shears. See under Rotary. 
Either one of two species of birds composing the genus Chionis, and family Chionidæ, native of the islands of the Antarctic.seas. 
A wheel having a groove in the rim for a rope to work in, and set in a block, mast, or the like; the wheel of a pulley. Sheave hole, a channel cut in a mast, yard, rail, or other timber, in which to fix a sheave. 
To gather and bind into a sheaf or sheaves; hence, to collect. Ashmole. 
A slight or temporary structure built to shade or shelter something; a structure usually open in front; an outbuilding; a hut; as, a wagon shed; a wood shed. The first Aletes born in lowly shed. Fairfax. Sheds of reeds which summer's heat repel. Sandys. 
To divide, as the warp threads, so as to form a shed, or passageway, for the shuttle. 
The passageway between the threads of the warp through which the shuttle is thrown, having a sloping top and bottom made by raising and lowering the alternate threads. 
Same as Sheelfa. 
Bright; glittering; radiant; fair; showy; sheeny. [R., except in poetry.] This holy maiden, that is so bright and sheen. Chaucer. Up rose each warrier bold and brave, Glistening in filed steel and armor sheen. Fairfax. 
To shine; to glisten. [Poetic] This town, That, sheening far, celestial seems to be. Byron. 
Brightness; splendor; glitter. "Throned in celestial sheen." Milton. 
Bright; shining; radiant; sheen. "A sheeny summer morn." Tennyson. 
Any one of several species of ruminants of the genus Ovis, native of the higher mountains of both hemispheres, but most numerous in Asia. 
Resembling sheep; sheepish. Testament of Love. 
Clean; quite; at once. [Obs.] Milton. 
To shear. [Obs.] Dryden. 
To decline or deviate from the line of the proper course; to turn aside; to swerve; as, a ship sheers from her course; a horse sheers at a bicycle. To sheer off, to turn or move aside to a distance; to move away. -- To sheer up, to approach obliquely. 
Shears See Shear. Sheer batten (Shipbuilding), a long strip of wood to guide the carpenters in following the sheer plan. -- Sheer boom, a boom slanting across a stream to direct floating logs to one side. -- Sheer hulk. See Shear hulk, under Hulk. -- Sheer plan, or Sheer draught (Shipbuilding), a projection of the lines of a vessel on a vertical longitudinal plane passing through the middle line of the vessel. -- Sheer pole (Naut.), an iron rod lashed to the shrouds just above the dead-eyes and parallel to the ratlines. -- Sheer strake (Shipbuilding), the strake under the gunwale on the top side. Totten. -- To break sheer (Naut.), to deviate from sheer, and risk fouling the anchor. 
In general, a large, broad piece of anything thin, as paper, cloth, etc.; a broad, thin portion of any substance; an expanded superficies. Specifically: (a) A broad piece of cloth, usually linen or cotton, used for wrapping the body or for a covering; especially, one used as an article of bedding next to the body. He fell into a trance, and saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending unto him, as it had been a great sheet knit at the four corners. Acts x. 10, 11. If I do die before thee, prithee, shroud me In one of those same sheets. Shak. 
A large anchor stowed on shores outside the waist of a vessel; -- called also waist anchor. See the Note under Anchor. 
The head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village. The name is also applied to Mohammedan ecclesiastics of a high grade. [Written also scheik, shaik, sheikh.] 
A jocose term for money. 
Variegated; spotted; speckled; piebald. [Prov. Eng.] 
A flat tablet or ledge of any material set horizontally at a distance from the floor, to hold objects of use or ornament. 
The hard calcareous or chitinous external covering of mollusks, crustaceans, and some other invertebrates. In some mollusks, as the cuttlefishes, it is internal, or concealed by the mantle. Also, the hard covering of some vertebrates, as the armadillo, the tortoise, and the like. (e) (Zoöl.) Hence, by extension, any mollusks having such a covering. 
See the Note under 2d Lac. 
Abounding with shells; consisting of shells, or of a shell. "The shelly shore." Prior. Shrinks backward in his shelly cave. Shak. 
To incline gradually; to be slopping; as, the bottom shelves from the shore. 
Sloping gradually; shelving. The shore was shelving and shallow. Shak. 
Destructive; ruinous; disgraceful. [Obs.] -- Shend"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] Fabyan. 
obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Shend, for shendeth. Chaucer. 
To shend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The place of departed spirits; Hades; also, the grave. For thou wilt not leave my soul to sheel. Ps. xvi. 10. (Rev. Ver.) 
A stable; a shippen. [Obs.] The shepne brenning with the blacke smoke. Chaucer. 
A fragment; -- now used only in composition, as in potsherd. See Shard. The thigh . . . which all in sherds it drove. Chapman. 
See Shearn. [Obs.] 
A Spanish light-colored dry wine, made in Andalusia. As prepared for commerce it is colored a straw color or a deep amber by mixing with it cheap wine boiled down. Sherry cobbler, a beverage prepared with sherry wine, water, lemon or orange, sugar, ice, etc., and usually imbided through a straw or a glass tube. 
To shut. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. 
To shoot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The part of a plow which projects downward beneath the beam, for holding the share and other working parts; -- also called standard, or post. 
See Show. 
Show. [Obs. except in shewbread.] 
A scarecrow. [Obs.] Trench. 
One who shews. See Shower. 
p. p. of Shew. 
Same as Shiite. 
An unproductive mine; a duffer. [Australia] 
A thin board; a billet of wood; a splinter. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Shy, to throw. 
imp. & p. p. of Shy. 
A sheeling. [Scot.] Burns. 
In lichens, a Hardened cup or disk surrounded by a rim and containing the fructification, or asci. 
Any small moth of the genus Aspidisca, whose larva makes a shieldlike covering for itself out of bits of leaves. 
To slip to one side of a ship, so as to destroy the equilibrum; -- said of ballast or cargo; as, the cargo shifted. 
A breaking off and dislocation of a seam; a fault. 
Full of, or ready with, shifts; fertile in expedients or contrivance. Wright. Shifty and thrifty as old Greek or modern Scot, there were few things he could not invent, and perhaps nothing he could not endure. C. Kingsley. 
Straw. [Obs.] 
To shell. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
To put under cover; to sheal. [Prov.ng.] Brockett. 
A word used by Jacob on his deathbed, and interpreted variously, as "the Messiah," or as the city "Shiloh," or as "Rest." 
See Shyly. 
A thin piece of metal placed between two parts to make a fit. 
A chemise. [Colloq.] 
A fish plate for rails. Knight. Shin bone (Anat.), the tibia. -- Shin leaf (Bot.), a perennial ericaceous herb (Pyrola elliptica) with a cluster of radical leaves and a raceme of greenish white flowers. 
To climb (a pole, etc.) by shinning up. [Slang] 
Shining; sheen. [Obs.] Spenser. 
That which shines. Specifically: (a) A luminary. (b) A bright piece of money. [Slang] Has she the shiners, d' ye think Foote. black eye. (c) (Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of small freshwater American cyprinoid fishes, belonging to Notropis, or Minnilus, and allied genera; as the redfin (Notropis megalops), and the golden shiner (Notemigonus chrysoleucus) of the Eastern United States; also loosely applied to various other silvery fishes, as the dollar fish, or horsefish, menhaden, moonfish, sailor's choice, and the sparada. (d) (Zoöl.) 
A Scotch game resembling hockey; also, the club used in the game. Jamieson. 
Bright; luminous; clear; unclouded. Like distant thunder on a shiny day. Dryden. 
Pay; reward. [Obs.] In withholding or abridging of the ship or the hire or the wages of servants. Chaucer. 
A ship's side; hence, by extension, a ship; -- found chiefly in adverbial phrases; as, on shipboard; a shipboard. 
Cloisonné enamel on a background of metal or porcelain. 
A kind of Persian wine; -- so called from the place whence it is brought. 
One of an English breed of heavy draft horses believed to be descended largely from the horses used in war in the days of heavy armor. They are the  largest of the British draft breeds, and have long hair on the back of the cannons and fetlocks. Brown or bay with white on the face and legs is now the commonest color. 
One who lives by shifts and tricks; one who avoids the performance of duty or labor. 
Disposed to shirk. [Colloq.] 
Shrill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
See Schorl. 
A series of close parallel runnings which are drawn up so as to make the material between them set full by gatherings; -- called also shirring, and gauging. 
A loose under-garment for the upper part of the body, made of cotton, linen, or other material; -- formerly used of the under- garment of either sex, now commonly restricted to that worn by men and boys. Several persons in December had nothing over their shoulders but their shirts. Addison. She had her shirts and girdles of hair. Bp. Fisher. 
To cover or clothe with a shirt, or as with a shirt. Dryden. 
A variety of blue slate. 
To break into many small pieces, or splinters; to shatter; to dash to pieces by a blow; as, to shiver a glass goblet. All the ground With shivered armor strown. Milton. 
To separate suddenly into many small pieces or parts; to be shattered. There shiver shafts upon shields thick. Chaucer The natural world, should gravity once cease, . . . would instantly shiver into millions of atoms. Woodward. 
To tremble; to vibrate; to quiver; to shake, as from cold or fear. Prometheus is laid On icy Caucasus to shiver. Swift. The man that shivered on the brink of sin, Thus steeled and hardened, ventures boldly in. Creech. 
To cause to shake or tremble, as a sail, by steering close to the wind. 
The act of shivering or trembling. 
A train of vein material mixed with rubbish; fragments of ore which have become separated by the action of water or the weather, and serve to direct in the discovery of mines. [Written also shode.] 
A great multitude assembled; a crowd; a throng; -- said especially of fish; as, a shoal of bass. "Great shoals of people." Bacon. Beneath, a shoal of silver fishes glides. Waller. 
To assemble in a multitude; to throng; as, the fishes shoaled about the place. Chapman. 
Having little depth; shallow; as, shoal water. 
To become shallow; as, the color of the water shows where it shoals. 
To cause to become more shallow; to come to a more shallow part of; as, a ship shoals her water by advancing into that which is less deep. Marryat. 
Full of shoals, or shallow places. The tossing vessel sailed on shoaly ground. Dryden. 
A prop. See 3d Shore. 
A young hog. Same as Shote. 
A lot consisting of sixty pieces; -- a term applied in some Baltic ports to loose goods. 
To collect, or make up, into a shock or shocks; to stook; as, to shock rye. 
To be occupied with making shocks. Reap well, scatter not, gather clean that is shorn, Bind fast, shock apace. Tusser. 
A sudden depression of the vital forces of the entire body, or of a port of it, marking some profound impression produced upon the nervous system, as by severe injury, overpowering emotion, or the like. 
To meet with a shock; to meet in violent encounter. "They saw the moment approach when the two parties would shock together." De Quincey. 
A dog with long hair or shag; -- called also shockdog. 
Bushy; shaggy; as, a shock hair. His red shock peruke . . . was laid aside. Sir W. Scott. 
f Shoe. 
Made wholly or in part of shoddy; containing shoddy; as, shoddy cloth; shoddy blankets; hence, colloquially, not genuine; sham; pretentious; as, shoddy aristocracy. Shoddy inventions designed to bolster up a factitious pride. Compton Reade. 
See Shoad, Shoading. 
A package of gold beater's skins in which gold is subjected to the second process of beating. 
A large African wading bird (Balæniceps rex) allied to the storks and herons, and remarkable for its enormous broad swollen bill. It inhabits the valley of the White Nile. See Illust. (l.) of Beak. 
One who fits shoes to the feet; one who furnishes or puts on shoes; as, a shoer of horses. 
A shock; a jog; a violent concussion or impulse. [R. or Scot.] 
To shake; to shock. [R. or Scot.] 
To jog; to move on. [R. or Scot.] Beau & Fl. 
A title originally conferred by the Mikado on the military governor of the eastern provinces of Japan. By gradual usurpation of power the Shoguns (known to foreigners as Tycoons) became finally the virtual rulers of Japan. The title was abolished in 1867. [Written variously, Shiogun, Shiogoon, etc.] 
See Sola. 
A plank fixed beneath an object, as beneath the rudder of a vessel, to protect it from injury; a plank on the ground under the end of a shore or the like. 
See Shoal. [Obs.] 
Harm; disgrace; shame. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. & p. p. of Shine. 
Begone; away; -- an expression used in frightening away animals, especially fowls. 
The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus);- so called from its cry. [Prov. Eng.] 
imp. & obs. or poet. p. p. of Shake. 
To pack, as staves, in a shook. 
pl. of Shoe. [Archaic] Chaucer. They shook the snow from hats and shoon. Emerson. 
imp. of Shape. Shaped. Chaucer. 
An inclined plane, either artificial or natural, down which timber, coal, etc., are caused to slide; also, a narrow passage, either natural or artificial, in a stream, where the water rushes rapidly; esp., a channel, having a swift current, connecting the ends of a bend in the stream, so as to shorten the course. [Written also chute, and shute.] [U. S.] To take a shoot, to pass through a shoot instead of the main channel; to take the most direct course. [U.S.] 
To plane straight; to fit by planing. Two pieces of wood that are shot, that is, planed or else pared with a paring chisel. Moxon. 
To move ahead by force of momentum, as a sailing vessel when the helm is put hard alee. To shoot ahead, to pass or move quickly forward; to outstrip others. 
A vein of ore running in the same general direction as the lode. Knight. 
Sprouting or coming up freely and regularly. [Prev. Eng.] Grose. 
imp. of Shape. Shaped. Chaucer. 
To visit shops for the purpose of purchasing goods. He was engaged with his mother and some ladies to go shopping. Byron. 
p. p. of Shape. Chaucer. 
The trick of a shopkeeper; deception. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
imp. of Shear. Chaucer. 
A sewer. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
A prop, as a timber, placed as a brace or support against the side of a building or other structure; a prop placed beneath anything, as a beam, to prevent it from sinking or sagging. [Written also shoar.] 
To support by a shore or shores; to prop; -- usually with up; as, to shore up a building. 
The coast or land adjacent to a large body of water, as an ocean, lake, or large river. Michael Cassio, Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello, Is come shore. Shak. The fruitful shore of muddy Nile. Spenser. In shore, near the shore. Marryat. -- On shore. See under On. -- Shore birds (Zoöl.), a collective name for the various limicoline birds found on the seashore. -- Shore crab (Zoöl.), any crab found on the beaches, or between tides, especially any one of various species of grapsoid crabs, as Heterograpsus nudus of California. -- Shore lark (Zoöl.), a small American lark (Otocoris alpestris) found in winter, both on the seacoast and on the Western plains. Its upper parts are varied with dark brown and light brown. It has a yellow throat, yellow local streaks, a black crescent on its breast, a black streak below each eye, and two small black erectile ear tufts. Called also horned lark. -- Shore plover (Zoöl.), a large-billed Australian plover (Esacus magnirostris). It lives on the seashore, and feeds on crustaceans, etc. -- Shore teetan (Zoöl.), the rock pipit (Anthus obscurus). [Prov. Eng.] 
To set on shore. [Obs.] Shak. 
One who, or that which, shores or props; a prop; a shore. 
p. p. of Shear. 
Breaking or crumbling readily in the mouth; crisp; as, short pastry. 
The part of milled grain sifted out which is next finer than the bran. The first remove above bran is shorts. Halliwell. 
In a short manner; briefly; limitedly; abruptly; quickly; as, to stop short in one's course; to turn short. He was taken up very short, and adjudged corrigible for such presumptuous language. Howell. To sell short (Stock Exchange), to sell, for future delivery, what the party selling does not own, but hopes to buy at a lower rate. 
To shorten. [Obs.] 
To fail; to decrease. [Obs.] 
Lying near the shore. [Obs.] 
imp. & p. p. Shoot. 
Woven in such a way as to produce an effect of variegation, of changeable tints, or of being figured; as, shot silks. See Shoot, v. t., 8. 
A share or proportion; a reckoning; a scot. Here no shots are where all shares be. Chapman. A man is never . . . welcome to a place till some certain shot be paid and the hostess say "Welcome." Shak. 
To load with shot, as a gun. Totten. 
A fish resembling the trout. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Garew. 
The refuse of cattle taken from a drove. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A shockdog. 
See Shoo. Beau & Fl. 
Used as an auxiliary verb, to express a conditional or contingent act or state, or as a supposition of an actual fact; also, to express moral obligation (see Shall); e. g.: they should have come last week; if I should go; I should think you could go. "You have done that you should be sorry for." Shak. 
To utter a sudden and loud outcry, as in joy, triumph, or exultation, or to attract attention, to animate soldiers, etc. Shouting of the men and women eke. Chaucer. They shouted thrice: what was the last cry for Shak. To shout at, to utter shouts at; to deride or revile with shouts. 
A loud burst of voice or voices; a vehement and sudden outcry, especially of a multitudes expressing joy, triumph, exultation, or animated courage. The Rhodians, seeing the enemy turn their backs, gave a great shout in derision. Knolles. 
The act of shoving; a forcible push. I rested . . . and then gave the boat another shove. Swift. 
p. p. of Shove. Chaucer. 
An implement consisting of a broad scoop, or more or less hollow blade, with a handle, used for lifting and throwing earth, coal, grain, or other loose substances. Shovel hat, a broad-brimmed hat, turned up at the sides, and projecting in front like a shovel, - - worn by some clergy of the English Church. [Colloq.] -- Shovelspur (Zoöl.), a flat, horny process on the tarsus of some toads, -- used in burrowing. -- Steam shovel, a machine with a scoop or scoops, operated by a steam engine, for excavating earth, as in making railway cuttings. 
Shoveler. [Prov. Eng.] 
p. p. of Shove. Chaucer. 
A discharge, from the vagina, of mucus streaked with blood, occuring a short time before labor. 
To rain in showers; to fall, as in a hower or showers. Shak. 
p. p. of Show. 
, a. Etym: [Compar. Showier (; superl. Showiest.] 
A twig of a tree cut off. [Obs.] 
To trim, as trees; to lop. [Obs.] 
To cause to shrink or shrivel with cold; to benumb. [Prov. Eng.] 
imp. of Shrink. 
The fieldfare; -- so called from its harsh cry before rain. [Prov. Eng.] 
Wicked; malicious. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any small insectivore of the genus Sorex and several allied genera of the family Sorecidæ. In form and color they resemble mice, but they have a longer and more pointed nose. Some of them are the smallest of all mammals. 
To beshrew; to curse. [Obs.] "I shrew myself." Chaucer. 
having the qualities of a shrew; having a scolding disposition; froward; peevish. My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours. Shak. -- Shrew"ish*ly, adv. -- Shrew"ish*ness, n. 
To utter a loud, sharp, shrill sound or cry, as do some birds and beasts; to scream, as in a sudden fright, in horror or anguish. It was the owl that shrieked. Shak. At this she shrieked aloud; the mournful train Echoed her grief. Dryden. 
To utter sharply and shrilly; to utter in or with a shriek or shrieks. On top whereof aye dwelt the ghostly owl, Shrieking his baleful note. Spenser. She shrieked his name To the dark woods. Moore. 
A sharp, shrill outcry or scream; a shrill wild cry such as is caused by sudden or extreme terror, pain, or the like. Shrieks, clamors, murmurs, fill the frighted town. Dryden. Shriek owl. (Zoöl.) (a) The screech owl. (b) The swift; -- so called from its cry. 
imp. & p. p. of Shriek. She cried alway and shright. Chaucer. 
Any one of numerous species of oscinine birds of the family Laniidæ, having a strong hooked bill, toothed at the tip. Most shrikes are insectivorous, but the common European gray shrike (Lanius excubitor), the great northern shrike (L. borealis), and several others, kill mice, small birds, etc., and often impale them on thorns, and are, on that account called also butcher birds. See under Butcher. 
Acute; sharp; piercing; having or emitting a sharp, piercing tone or sound; -- said a sound, or of that which produces a sound. Hear the shrill whistle which doth order give To sounds confused. Shak. Let winds be shrill, let waves roll high. Byron. 
A shrill sound. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To utter an acute, piercing sound; to sound with a sharp, shrill tone; to become shrill. Break we our pipes, that shrilledloud as lark. Spenser. No sounds were heard but of the shrilling cock. Goldsmith. His voice shrilled with passion. L. Wallace. 
To utter or express in a shrill tone; to cause to make a shrill sound. How poor Andromache shrills her dolors forth. Shak. 
To contract; to shrink. [Obs.] 
One who fishes for shrimps. 
To enshrine; to place reverently, as in a shrine. "Shrined in his sanctuary." Milton. 
The act shrinking; shrinkage; contraction; also, recoil; withdrawal. Yet almost wish, with sudden shrink, That I had less to praise. Leigh Hunt. 
To receive confessions, as a priest; to administer confession and absolution. Spenser. 
A banker, or changer of money. [East Indies] 
To trim; to lop. [Prov. Eng.] 
A set of ropes serving as stays to support the masts. The lower shrouds are secured to the sides of vessels by heavy iron bolts and are passed around the head of the lower masts. 
To take shelter or harbor. [Obs.] If your stray attendance be yet lodged, Or shroud within these limits. Milton. 
To lop. See Shrood. [Prov. Eng.] 
imp. of Shrive. Shrove Sunday, Quinguagesima Sunday. -- Shrove Tuesday, the Tuesday following Quinguagesima Sunday, and preceding the first day of Lent, or Ash Wednesday. 
To join in the festivities of Shrovetide; hence, to make merry. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 
A shrew. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Shrood. [Prov. Eng.] 
A liquor composed of vegetable acid, especially lemon juice, and sugar, with spirit to preserve it. 
A woody plant of less size than a tree, and usually with several stems from the same root. 
To lop; to prune. [Obs.] Anderson (1573). 
Rubbish. Specifically: (a) Dross or refuse of metals. [Obs.] (b) Light, dry wood, or stuff used for fuel. [Prov. Eng.] 
To draw up or contract (the shoulders), especially by way of expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like. He shrugs his shoulders when you talk of securities. Addison. 
To raise or draw up the shoulders, as in expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like. They grin, they shrug. They bow, they snarl, they snatch, they hug. Swift. 
A drawing up of the shoulders, -- a motion usually expressing dislike, dread, or doubt. The Spaniards talk in dialogues Of heads and shoulders, nods and shrugs. Hudibras. 
A shock of grain. [Prev.Eng.] 
To deprive of the shucks or husks; as, to shuck walnuts, Indian corn, oysters, etc. 
The husks and other refuse of rice mills, used to adulterate oil cake, or linseed cake. 
Sumac. 
To avoid; to keep clear of; to get out of the way of; to escape from; to eschew; as, to shun rocks, shoals, vice. I am pure from the blood of all men. For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. Acts xx. 26,27. Scarcity and want shall shun you. Shak. 
To provide with a shunt; as, to shunt a galvanometer. 
To go aside; to turn off. 
A turning off to a side or short track, that the principal track may be left free. 
To close itself; to become closed; as, the door shuts; it shuts hard. To shut up, to cease speaking. [Colloq.] T. Hughes. 
The act or time of shutting; close; as, the shut of a door. Just then returned at shut of evening flowers. Milton. 
Same as Chute, or Shoot. 
To start suddenly aside through fright or suspicion; -- said especially of horses. 
To throw sidewise with a jerk; to fling; as, to shy a stone; to shy a slipper. T. Hughes. 
In a shy or timid manner; not familiarly; with reserve. [Written also shily.] 
The ahu, or jairou. 
A blood relation. [Obs.] Nash. 
Related by blood; akin. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. Your kindred is but . . . little sib to you. Chaucer. [He] is no fairy birn, ne sib at all To elfs, but sprung of seed terrestrial. Spenser. 
A woman supposed to be endowed with a spirit of prophecy. 
Such. [Scot.] 
Thus. 
A seal; a coining die; -- used adjectively to designate the silver currency of the Mogul emperors, or the Indian rupee of 192 grains. Sicca rupee, an East Indian coin, valued nominally at about two shillings sterling, or fifty cents. 
The number six at dice. 
A strong drink; cider. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Such. [Obs. or Colloq.] Spenser. 
Sickness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To fall sick; to sicken. [Obs.] Shak. 
Causing sickness; specif., causing surfeit or disgust; nauseating. -- Sick"en*ing*ly, adv. 
To percolate, trickle, or ooze, as water through a crack. [Also written sigger, zigger, and zifhyr.] [Prov. Eng.] 
A group of stars in the constellation Leo. See Illust. of Leo. Sickle pod (Bot.), a kind of rock cress (Arabis Canadensis) having very long curved pods. 
In a sick manner or condition; ill. My people sickly [with ill will] beareth our marriage. Chaucer. 
To make sick or sickly; -- with over, and probably only in the past participle. [R.] Sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought. Shak. Sentiments sicklied over . . . with that cloying heaviness into which unvaried sweetness is too apt to subside. Jeffrey. 
A shekel. [Obs.] The holy mother brought five sicles and a pair of turtledoves to redeem the Lamb of God. Jer. Taylor. 
A genus of malvaceous plants common in the tropics. All the species are mucilaginous, and some have tough ligneous fibers which are used as a substitute for hemp and flax. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 
Soft; pulpy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Long; large; extensive. [Obs. or Scot.] Shak. His gown had side sleeves down to mid leg. Laneham. Side action, in breech-loading firearms, a mechanism for operating the breech block, which is moved by a lever that turns sidewise. -- Side arms, weapons worn at the side, as sword, bayonet, pistols, etc. -- Side ax, an ax of which the handle is bent to one side. -- Side-bar rule (Eng. Law.), a rule authorized by the courts to be granted by their officers as a matter of course, without formal application being made to them in open court; -- so called because anciently moved for by the attorneys at side bar, that is, informally. Burril. -- Side box, a box or inclosed seat on the side of a theater. To insure a side-box station at half price. Cowper. -- Side chain, one of two safety chains connecting a tender with a locomotive, at the sides. -- Side cut, a canal or road branching out from the main one. [U.S.] -- Side dish, one of the dishes subordinate to the main course. -- Side glance, a glance or brief look to one side. -- Side hook (Carp.), a notched piece of wood for clamping a board to something, as a bench. -- Side lever, a working beam of a side-lever engine. -- Side-lever engine, a marine steam engine having a working beam of each side of the cylinder, near the bottom of the engine, communicating motion to a crank that is above them. -- Side pipe (Steam Engine), a steam or exhaust pipe connecting the upper and lower steam chests of the cylinder of a beam engine. -- Side plane, a plane in which the cutting edge of the iron is at the side of the stock. -- Side posts (Carp.), posts in a truss, usually placed in pairs, each post set at the same distance from the middle of the truss, for supporting the principal rafters, hanging the tiebeam, etc. -- Side rod. (a) One of the rods which connect the piston-rod crosshead with the side levers, in a side-lever engine. (b) See Parallel rod, under Parallel. -- Side screw (Firearms), one of the screws by which the lock is secured to the side of a firearm stock. -- Side table, a table placed either against the wall or aside from the principal table. -- Side tool (Mach.), a cutting tool, used in a lathe or planer, having the cutting edge at the side instead of at the point. -- Side wind, a wind from one side; hence, an indirect attack, or indirect means. Wright. 
To work (a timber or rib) to a certain thickness by trimming the sides. 
Having (such or so many) sides; -- used in composition; as, one-sided; many-sided. 
One who takes a side. 
Cider. [Obs.] 
The covering of the outside wall of a frame house, whether made of weatherboards, vertical boarding with cleats, shingles, or the like. 
To go or move with one side foremost; to move sidewise; as, to sidle through a crowd or narrow opening. Swift. He . . . then sidled close to the astonished girl. Sir W. Scott. 
To besiege; to beset. [R.] Through all the dangers that can siege The life of man. Buron. 
Clay that is colored red or brown by the oxides of iron or manganese, and used as a pigment. It is used either in the raw state or burnt. Burnt sienna, sienna made of a much redder color by the action of fire. -- Raw sienna, sienna in its natural state, of a transparent yellowish brown color. 
A ridge of mountain and craggy rocks, with a serrated or irregular outline; as, the Sierra Nevada. The wild sierra overhead. Whitter. 
A short sleep taken about the middle of the day, or after dinner; a midday nap. 
Sir; -- a title of respect used by the French. 
A small variety of the Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus). 
The white indris of Madagascar. It is regarded by the natives as sacred. 
Any lamellirostral bird, as a duck or goose; -- so called because it sifts or strains its food from the water and mud by means of the lamell 
Urine. [Prov. Eng.] 
Same as Sicker. [Prov. Eng.] 
Sorrowful; mournful. [R.] "Sigh-born thoughts." De Quincey. 
One who sighs. 
To take aim by a sight. 
A seal; a signature. Dryden. Of talismans and sigils knew the power. Pope. 
The signs, abbreviations, letters, or characters standing for words, shorthand, etc., in ancient manuscripts, or on coins, medals, etc. W. Savage. 
The Greek letter S, or s). It originally had the form of the English C. 
That by which anything is made known or represented; that which furnishes evidence; a mark; a token; an indication; a proof. Specifically: (a) A remarkable event, considered by the ancients as indicating the will of some deity; a prodigy; an omen. (b) An event considered by the Jews as indicating the divine will, or as manifesting an interposition of the divine power for some special end; a miracle; a wonder. Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God. Rom. xv. 19. It shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neither hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign. Ex. iv. 8. 
Suitable to be signed; requiring signature; as, a legal document signable by a particular person. 
One who makes signals; one who communicates intelligence by means of signals. 
One who signs or subscribes his name; as, a memorial with a hundred signers. 
A seal; especially, in England, the seal used by the sovereign in sealing private letters and grants that pass by bill under the sign manual; -- called also privy signet. I had my father's signet in my purse. Shak. Signet ring, a ring containing a signet or private seal. -- Writer to the signet (Scots Law), a judicial officer who prepares warrants, writs, etc.; originally, a clerk in the office of the secretary of state. 
A gutter; a stream, such as is usually dry in summer. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A sick person. [Prov. Eng.] 
To sigh. [Obs.] That for his wife weepeth and siketh sore. Chaucer. 
A sigh. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A religious sect noted for warlike traits, founded in the Punjab at the end of the 15th century. 
Short for Ensilage. 
To strain, as fresh milk. [Prov. Eng.] 
To drop; to flow; to fall. [Prov. Eng.] 
A young or small herring. [Eng.] Pennant. 
A genus of caryophyllaceous plants, usually covered with a viscid secretion by which insects are caught; catchfly. Bon Silène. See Silène, in the Vocabulary. 
Not pronounced; having no sound; quiescent; as, e is silent in "fable." 
That which is silent; a time of silence. [R.] "The silent of the night." Shak. 
Silica, SiO2 as found in nature, constituting quarz, and most sands and sandstones. See Silica, and Silicic. 
Silicon dioxide, SiO 
from Sile to strain. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] Siling dish, a colander. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
To render silken or silklike. Dyer. 
The basis or foundation of a thing; especially, a horizontal piece, as a timber, which forms the lower member of a frame, or supports a structure; as, the sills of a house, of a bridge, of a loom, and the like. Hence: (a) The timber or stone at the foot of a door; the threshold. (b) The timber or stone on which a window frame stands; or, the lowest piece in a window frame. (c) The floor of a gallery or passage in a mine. (d) A piece of timber across the bottom of a canal lock for the gates to shut against. Sill course (Arch.), a horizontal course of stone, terra cotta, or the like, built into a wall at the level of one or more window sills, these sills often forming part of it. 
The shaft or thill of a carriage. [Prov. Eng.] 
A young herring. [Eng.] 
Silver. [Scot.] 
A work raised in the middle of a wide ditch, to defend it. Crabb. 
A caul. See Caul, n., 3. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A pit or vat for packing away green fodder for winter use so as to exclude air and outside moisture. See Ensilage. 
Mud or fine earth deposited from running or standing water. 
To choke, fill, or obstruct with silt or mud. 
To flow through crevices; to percolate. 
Full of silt; resembling silt. 
A fish of the genus Silurus, as the sheatfish; a siluroid. 
Of or pertaining to woods; composed of woods or groves; woody. [Written also sylvan.] Betwixt two rows of rocks, a silvan scene Appears above, and groves forever green. Dryden. 
See Sylvanium. [Obs.] 
A soft white metallic element, sonorous, ductile, very malleable, and capable of a high degree of polish. It is found native, and also combined with sulphur, arsenic, antimony, chlorine, etc., in the minerals argentite, proustite, pyrargyrite, ceragyrite, etc. Silver is one of the "noble" metals, so-called, not being easily oxidized, and is used for coin, jewelry, plate, and a great variety of articles. Symbol Ag (Argentum). Atomic weight 107.7. Specific gravity 10.5. 
To acquire a silvery color. [R.] The eastern sky began to silver and shine. L. Wallace. 
A cyma. 
A woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf. [Written also cimar, cymar, samare, simare.] 
A Linnæan genus of Quadrumana which included the types of numerous modern genera. By modern writers it is usually restricted to the genus which includes the orang-outang. 
Simian; apelike. 
Of or pertaining to the family Simiadæ, which, in its widest sense, includes all the Old World apes and monkeys; also, apelike. -- n. 
A word or phrase by which anything is likened, in one or more of its aspects, to something else; a similitude; a poetical or imaginative comparison. A good swift simile, but something currish. Shak. 
To boil gently, or with a gentle hissing; to begin to boil. I simmer as liquor doth on the fire before it beginneth to boil. Palsgrave. 
To cause to boil gently; to cook in liquid heated almost or just to the boiling point. 
One who practices simony, or who buys or sells preferment in the church. Ayliffe. 
The crime of buying or selling ecclesiastical preferment; the corrupt presentation of any one to an ecclesiastical benefice for money or reward. Piers Plowman. 
Having a very flat or snub nose, with the end turned up. 
A long-tailed monkey (Semnopitchecus melalophus) native of Sumatra. It has a crest of black hair. The forehead and cheeks are fawn color, the upper parts tawny and red, the under parts white. Called also black-crested monkey, and sinpæ. 
A constrained, self-conscious smile; an affected, silly smile; a smirk. The conscious simper, and the jealous leer. Pope. 
Without subdivisions; entire; as, a simple stem; a simple leaf. 
A medicinal plant; -- so called because each vegetable was supposed to possess its particular virtue, and therefore to constitute a simple remedy. What virtue is in this remedy lies in the naked simple itself as it comes over from the Indies. Sir W. Temple. 
To gather simples, or medicinal plants. As simpling on the flowery hills she [Circe] strayed. Garth. 
See Simulacrum. [Obs.] 
Old form of Since. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Sin that his lord was twenty year of age. Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to Mount Sinai; given or made at Mount Sinai; as, the Sinaitic law. Sinaitic manuscript, a fourth century Greek manuscript of the part Bible, discovered at Mount Sinai (the greater part of it in 1859) by Tisschendorf, a German Biblical critic; -- called also Codex Sinaiticus. 
From the time of; in or during the time subsequent to; subsequently to; after; -- usually with a past event or time for the object. The Lord hath blessed thee, since my coming. Gen. xxx. 30. I have a model by which he build a nobler poem than any extant since the ancients. Dryden. 
Seeing that; because; considering; -- formerly followed by that. Since that my penitence comes after all, Imploring pardon. Shak. Since truth and constancy are vain, Since neither love, nor sense of pain, Nor force of reason, can persuade, Then let example be obeyed. Granville. 
A saddle girth made of leather, canvas, woven horsehair, or woven grass. [Western U.S.] 
To gird with a sinch; to tighten the sinch or girth of (a saddle); as, to sinch up a sadle. [Western U.S.] 
A native of Sind, India, esp. one of the native Hindoo stock. 
A small rag or pledget introduced into the hole in the cranium made by a trephine. Dunglison. 
Without. 
A tendon or tendonous tissue. See Tendon. 
To knit together, or make strong with, or as with, sinews. Shak. Wretches, now stuck up for long tortures . . . might, if properly treated, serve to sinew the state in time of danger. Goldsmith. 
Tainted with, or full of, sin; wicked; iniquitous; criminal; unholy; as, sinful men; sinful thoughts. Piers Plowman. Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Isa. i. 4. -- Sin"ful*ly, adv. -- Sin"ful*ness, n. 
A burning of the surface; a slight burn. 
One who, or that which, singes. Specifically: (a) One employed to singe cloth. (b) A machine for singeing cloth. 
One who sings; especially, one whose profession is to sing. 
To take the irrregular gait called single-foot;- said of a horse. See Single-foot. Many very fleet horses, when overdriven, adopt a disagreeable gait, which seems to be a cross between a pace and a trot, in which the two legs of one side are raised almost but not quite, simultaneously. Such horses are said to single, or to be single-footed. W. S. Clark. 
The reeled filaments of silk, twisted without doubling to give them firmness. 
The kob. 
Of or pertaining to the Chinese and allied races; Chinese. 
One who, or that which, sinks. Specifically: (a) A weight on something, as on a fish line, to sink it. (b) In knitting machines, one of the thin plates, blades, or other devices, that depress the loops upon or between the needles. Dividing sinker, in knitting machines, a sinker between two jack sinkers and acting alternately with them. -- Jack sinker. See under Jack, n. -- Sinker bar. (a) In knitting machines, a bar to which one set of the sinkers is attached. (b) In deep well boring, a heavy bar forming a connection between the lifting rope and the boring tools, above the jars. 
One who has sinned; especially, one who has sinned without repenting; hence, a persistent and incorrigible transgressor; one condemned by the law of God. 
To act as a sinner. [Humorous] Whether the charmer sinner it or saint it. Pope. 
See Sennit . 
See Cinque. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 
Dross, as of iron; the scale which files from iron when hammered; -- applied as a name to various minerals. Calcareous sinter, a loose banded variety of calcite formed by deposition from lime-bearing waters; calcareous tufa; travertine. -- Ceraunian sinter, fulgurite. -- Siliceous sinter, a light cellular or fibrous opal; especially, geyserite (see Geyserite). It has often a pearly luster, and is then called pearl sinter. 
A kind of spice used in the East Indies, consisting of the bark of a species of Cinnamomum. [Written also sindoc.] 
A cavity; a depression. Specifically: (a) A cavity in a bone or other part, either closed or with a narrow opening. (b) A dilated vessel or canal. 
See Dakotas. 
To drink a small quantity; to take a fluid with the lips; to take a sip or sips of something. [She] raised it to her mouth with sober grace; Then, sipping, offered to the next in place. Dryden. 
See Seepage. [Scot. & U.S.] 
See Seep. [Scot. & U.S.] 
To convey, or draw off, by means of a siphon, as a liquid from one vessel to another at a lower level. 
Having a taste or flavorl savory; sapid. [Obs.] Cockeram. 
One whi sips. 
A small sop; a small, thin piece of toasted bread soaked in milk, broth, or the like; a small piece of toasted or fried bread cut into some special shape and used for garnishing. Your sweet sippets in widows' houses. Milton. 
To sip often. [Obs. or Scot.] 
See Seraskier. 
A native chief in Hindostan; a headman. Malcom. 
To beget; to procreate; -- used of beasts, and especially of stallions. 
One of three sea nymphs, -- or, according to some writers, of two, -- said to frequent an island near the coast of Italy, and to sing with such sweetness that they lured mariners to destruction. Next where the sirens dwell you plow the seas; Their song is death, and makes destruction please. Pope. 
Of or pertaining to a siren; bewitching, like a siren; fascinating; alluring; as, a siren song. 
See Siren, 6. 
The Dog Star. See Dog Star. 
See Sirocco. [Poetic] Emerson. 
A term of address implying inferiority and used in anger, contempt, reproach, or disrespectful familiarity, addressed to a man or boy, but sometimes to a woman. In sililoquies often preceded by ah. Not used in the plural. "Ah, sirrah mistress." Beau & Fl. Go, sirrah, to my cell. Shak. 
A quicksand. [Obs.] 
A colloquial abbreviation of Sister. 
Six. See Sise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An assize. [Obs.] 
Six; the highest number on a die; the cast of six in throwing dice. In the new casting of a die, when ace is on the top, sise must needs be at the bottom. Fuller. 
The suslik. 
Cider. See Sicer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The siscowet. 
To make a hissing sound; as, a flatiron hot enough to siss when touched with a wet finger. [Colloq. U. S.; Local, Eng.] 
A hissing noise. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A leguminous tree (Dalbergia Sissoo) of the northern parts of India; also, the dark brown compact and durable timber obtained from it. It is used in shipbuilding and for gun carriages, railway ties, etc. 
To stay, as judicial proceedings; to delay or suspend; to stop. 
A stay or suspension of proceedings; an order for a stay of proceedings. Burril. 
To be sister to; to resemble closely. [Obs.] Shak. 
obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Sit, for sitteth. 
Having a site; situated. [Obs.] [The garden] sited was in fruitful soil. Chaucer. 
Since; afterwards; seeing that. [Obs.] We need not fear them, sith Christ is with us. Latimer. Sith thou art rightful judge. Chaucer. 
To sigh. 
A scythe. [Obs.] Milton. 
To cut with a scythe; to scythe. [Obs.] 
Scythed. [Obs.] T. Warton. 
Since; afterwards. See 1st Sith. [Obs.] Fortune was first friend and sithen foe. Chaucer. 
p. p. of Sit, for sat. 
Of or pertaining to the family Sittidæ, or nuthatches. 
The method in which the parts of a plant are arranged; also, the position of the parts. Henslow. 
One of the triad of Hindoo gods. He is the avenger or destroyer, and in modern worship symbolizes the reproductive power of nature. 
The third month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year; -- supposed to correspond nearly with our month of June. 
To simmer. [Obs.] Holland. 
Same as Sewen. 
One more than five; twice three; as, six yards. Six Nations (Ethnol.), a confederation of North American Indians formed by the union of the Tuscaroras and the Five Nations. -- Six points circle. (Geom.) See Nine points circle, under Nine. 
Six times repeated; six times as much or as many. 
The interval embracing six diatonic degrees of the scale. 
Six times ten; fifty-nine and one more; threescore. 
Constituting or being one of sixty-four equal parts into which a thing is divided. Sixty-fourth note (Mus.), the sixty-fourth part of a whole note; a hemi-demi-semiquaver. 
One of a body of students in the universities of Cambridge (Eng.) and Dublin, who, having passed a certain examination, are exempted from paying college fees and charges. A sizar corresponded to a servitor at Oxford. The sizar paid nothing for food and tuition, and very little for lodging. Macaulay. 
Six. 
To cover with size; to prepare with size. 
An allowance of food and drink from the buttery, aside from the regular dinner at commons; -- corresponding to battel at Oxford. 
To bring or adjust anything exactly to a required dimension, as by cutting. To size up, to estimate or ascertain the character and ability of. See 4th Size, 4. [Slang, U.S.] We had to size up our fellow legislators. The Century. 
To order food or drink from the buttery; hence, to enter a score, as upon the buttery book. 
Same as Scissel, 2. 
The quality or state of being sizy; viscousness. 
Food and drink ordered from the buttery by a student. 
Sizelike; viscous; glutinous; as, sizy blood. Arbuthnot. 
To make a hissing sound; to fry, or to dry and shrivel up, with a hissing sound. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] Forby. 
A hissing sound, as of something frying over a fire. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] 
An additional piece fastened to the keel of a boat to prevent lateral motion. See Skeg. 
See Skein. [Obs.] 
See Skean. Drayton. 
See Scatch. [Scot.] 
See 5th Scald. 
To scale; to mount. [Obs.] 
The shag. [Prov. Eng.] 
A metallic runner with a frame shaped to fit the sole of a shoe, -- made to be fastened under the foot, and used for moving rapidly on ice. Batavia rushes forth; and as they sweep, On sounding skates, a thousand different ways, In circling poise, swift as the winds, along, The then gay land is maddended all to joy. Thomson. Roller skate. See under Roller. 
To move on skates. 
Any one of numerous species of large, flat elasmobranch fishes of the genus Raia, having a long, slender tail, terminated by a small caudal fin. The pectoral fins, which are large and broad and united to the sides of the body and head, give a somewhat rhombic form to these fishes. The skin is more or less spinose. 
Any one of numerous species of hemipterous insects belonging to Gerris, Pyrrhocoris, Prostemma, and allied genera. They have long legs, and run rapidly over the surface of the water, as if skating. 
A constituent of human fæces formed in the small intestines as a product of the putrefaction of albuminous matter. It is also found in reduced indigo. Chemically it is methyl indol, C9H9N. 
A knife or short dagger, esp. that in use among the Highlanders of Scotland. [Variously spelt.] "His skean, or pistol." Spenser. 
A long strip of wood, curved upwards in front, used on the foot for sliding. 
See Skid. 
A shallow wooden vessel for holding milk or cream. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Grose. 
A scoop with a long handle, used to wash the sides of a vessel, and formerly to wet the sails or deck. 
A kind of oats. Farm. Encyc. 
A metallic strengthening band or thimble on the wooden arm of an axle. Knight. 
A flight of wild fowl (wild geese or the like). [Prov. Eng.] 
See Skean. 
A skeleton. See Scelet. 
To squint. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
A squint. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To strike; to slap. [Scot.] C. Reade. 
A wrought-iron plate from which a gun barrel or pipe is made by bending and welding the edges together, and drawing the thick tube thus formed. 
To squint. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Skean. C. Kingsley. 
A doubter as to whether any fact or truth can be certainly known; a universal doubter; a Pyrrhonist; hence, in modern usage, occasionally, a person who questions whether any truth or fact can be established on philosophical grounds; sometimes, a critical inquirer, in opposition to a dogmatist. All this criticism [of Hume] proceeds upon the erroneous hypothesis that he was a dogmatist. He was a skeptic; that is, he accepted the principles asserted by the prevailing dogmatism: and only showed that such and such conclusions were, on these principles, inevitable. Sir W. Hamilton. 
A rocky isle; an insulated rock. [Scot.] 
An outline or general delineation of anything; a first rough or incomplete draught or plan of any design; especially, in the fine arts, such a representation of an object or scene as serves the artist's purpose by recording its chief features; also, a preliminary study for an original work. 
To make sketches, as of landscapes. 
Awry; obliquely; askew. 
Turned or twisted to one side; situated obliquely; skewed; -- chiefly used in technical phrases. Skew arch, an oblique arch. See under Oblique. -- Skew back. (Civil Engin.) (a) The course of masonry, the stone, or the iron plate, having an inclined face, which forms the abutment for the voussoirs of a segmental arch. (b) A plate, cap, or shoe, having an inclined face to receive the nut of a diagonal brace, rod, or the end of an inclined strut, in a truss or frame. -- Skew bridge. See under Bridge, n. -- Skew curve (Geom.), a curve of double curvature, or a twisted curve. See Plane curve, under Curve. -- Skew gearing, or Skew bevel gearing (Mach.), toothed gearing, generally resembling bevel gearing, for connecting two shafts that are neither parallel nor intersecting, and in which the teeth slant across the faces of the gears. -- Skew surface (Geom.), a ruled surface such that in general two successive generating straight lines do not intersect; a warped surface; as, the helicoid is a skew surface. -- Skew symmetrical determinant (Alg.), a determinant in which the elements in each column of the matrix are equal to the elements of the corresponding row of the matrix with the signs changed, as in (1), below. (1) 0 2 -3-2 0 53 -5 0 (2) 4 -1 71 8 -2-7 2 1 
A stone at the foot of the slope of a gable, the offset of a buttress, or the like, cut with a sloping surface and with a check to receive the coping stones and retain them in place. 
Marked with spots and patches of white and some color other than black; -- usually distinguished from piebald, in which the colors are properly white and black. Said of horses. 
A pin of wood or metal for fastening meat to a spit, or for keeping it in form while roasting. Meat well stuck with skewers to make it look round. Swift. 
To fasten with skewers. 
Same as Skee. 
Large fenders hung over a vessel's side to protect it in handling a cargo. Totten. (b) One of a pair of timbers or bars, usually arranged so as to form an inclined plane, as form a wagon to a door, along which anything is moved by sliding or rolling. (c) One of a pair of horizontal rails or timbers for supporting anything, as a boat, a barrel, etc. 
The black guillemot. [Prov. Eng.] 
imp. & p. p. of Sky, v. t. 
See Skyey. Shelley. 
A small, light boat. The pilot of some small night-foundered skiff. Milton. Skiff caterpillar (Zoöl.), the larva of a moth (Limacodes scapha); -- so called from its peculiar shape. 
To navigate in a skiff. [R.] 
To know; to understand. [Obs.] To skill the arts of expressing our mind. Barrow. 
Having familiar knowledge united with readiness and dexterity in its application; familiarly acquainted with; expert; skillful; -- often followed by in; as, a person skilled in drawing or geometry. 
A kind of large, coarse, short trousers formerly worn. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 
The water rail. [Prov. Eng.] 
Contraction of Skimming and Skimmed. Skim coat, the final or finishing coat of plaster. -- Skim colter, a colter for paring off the surface of land. -- Skim milk, skimmed milk; milk from which the cream has been taken. 
Scum; refuse. Bryskett. 
To save; to be parsimonious or niggardly. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 
Scanty. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 
The external membranous integument of an animal. 
Having the skin adhering closely and rigidly to the flesh; hidebound. Skinbound disease. (Med.) See Sclerema neonatorum, under Sclerema. 
To give scant measure; to squeeze or pinch in order to effect a saving. [Prev. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 
Any one of numerous species of regularly scaled harmless lizards of the family Scincidæ, common in the warmer parts of all the continents. 
To draw or serve, as drink. [Obs.] Bacchus the wine them skinketh all about. Chaucer. Such wine as Ganymede doth skink to Jove. Shirley. 
To serve or draw liquor. [Obs.] 
Drink; also, pottage. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Consisting, or chiefly consisting, of skin; wanting flesh. "Her skinny lips." Shak. He holds him with a skinny hand. Coleridge. 
An iron bucket, which slides between guides, for hoisting mineral and rock. 
A passage from one sound to another by more than a degree at once. Busby. Skip kennel, a lackey; a footboy. [Slang.] Swift. -- Skip mackerel. (Zoöl.) See Bluefish, 1. 
To utter in a shrill tone; to scream. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A shrill cry or sound. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To ramble over in order to clear; to scour. [Archaic] Shak. 
To scour; to scud; to run. [Archaic] 
A tern. [Prov. Eng.] 
To be on the border; to live near the border, or extremity. Savages . . . who skirt along our western frontiers. S. S. Smith. 
To cast reflections on; to asperse. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Crose. 
To move or pass (something) over a surface quickly so that it touches only at intervals; to skip. 
A rail; as, the water rail (called also skitty cock, and skitty coot); the spotted crake (Porzana maruetta), and the moor hen. [Prov. Eng.] 
The iron lap used by diamond polishers in finishing the facets of the gem. 
To pare or shave off the rough or thick parts of (hides or leather). 
A vell. [Obs.] 
To shelter; to cover. [Obs.] 
See Sconce. 
A guillemot. 
See Screen. [Obs.] 
To shriek. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The missel thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Scrimp. 
The skrike. [Prov. Eng.] 
Any jager gull; especially, the Megalestris skua; -- called also boatswain. 
See Skew. 
To hide, or get out of the way, in a sneaking manner; to lie close, or to move in a furtive way; to lurk. "Want skulks in holes and crevices." W. C. Bryant. Discovered and defeated of your prey, You skulked behind the fence, and sneaked away. Dryden. 
A number of foxes together. Wright. 
A school, company, or shoal. [Obs.] A knavish skull of boys and girls did pelt at him. Warner. These fishes enter in great flotes and skulls. Holland. 
The skeleton of the head of a vertebrate animal, including the brain case, or cranium, and the bones and cartilages of the face and mouth. See Illusts. of Carnivora, of Facial angles under Facial, and of Skeleton, in Appendix. 
See Scum. 
Any one of several species of American musteline carnivores of the genus Mephitis and allied genera. They have two glands near the anus, secreting an extremely fetid liquid, which the animal ejects at pleasure as a means of defense. 
In games of chance and skill: To defeat (an opponent) (as in cards) so that he fails to gain a point, or (in checkers) to get a king. [Colloq. 
See Scurry. 
A boat; a small vessel. [Obs.] Sir R. Williams. 
Having the blue color of the sky; azure; as, a sky-blue stone. Wordsworth. 
Surrounded by sky. [Poetic & R.] "The skyed mountain." Thomson. 
Like the sky; ethereal; being in the sky. "Skyey regions." Thackeray. Sublime on the towers of my skyey bowers, Lightning, my pilot, sits. Shelley. 
Like the sky, or approaching the sky; lofty; ethereal. [R.] Shak. 
An aëronaut. [Slang] 
The wryneck. [Prov. Eng.] 
Thick; viscous. [Obs.] Make the gruel thick and slab. Shak. 
That which is slimy or viscous; moist earth; mud; also, a puddle. [Obs.] Evelyn. 
Having flat sides; hence, tall, or long and lank. [Colloq. U. S.] 
Small coal; also, coal dust; culm. Raymond. 
A valley, or small, shallow dell. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
Lax; not tense; not hard drawn; not firmly extended; as, a slack rope. 
Slackly; as, slack dried hops. 
The part of anything that hangs loose, having no strain upon it; as, the slack of a rope or of a sail. 
Of or pertaining to slag; resembling slag; as, slaggy cobalt. 
A weaver's reed; a sley. 
Not capable of being slaked. 
Slacken. 
To come or swing against something, or to shut, with sudden force so as to produce a shock and noise; as, a door or shutter slams. 
Winning all the tricks of a deal. 
imp. of Sling. Slung. [Archaic] 
Any long, narrow piece of land; a promontory. [Local, Eng.] Holland. 
A fetter worn on the leg by a convict. [Eng.] 
Low, vulgar, unauthorized language; a popular but unauthorized word, phrase, or mode of expression; also, the jargon of some particular calling or class in society; low popular cant; as, the slang of the theater, of college, of sailors, etc. 
To address with slang or ribaldry; to insult with vulgar language. [Colloq.] Every gentleman abused by a cabman or slanged by a bargee was bound there and then to take off his coat and challenge him to fisticuffs. London Spectator. 
Of or pertaining to slang; of the nature of slang; disposed to use slang. [Written also slangey.] 
imp. & p. p. of Slink. 
To be turned or inclined from a right line or level; to lie obliquely; to slope. On the side of younder slanting hill. Dodsley. 
To turn from a direct line; to give an oblique or sloping direction to; as, to slant a line. 
Inclined from a direct line, whether horizontal or perpendicular; sloping; oblique. "The slant lightning." Milton. 
A blow, esp. one given with the open hand, or with something broad. 
To strike with the open hand, or with something broad. 
With a sudden and violent blow; hence, quickly; instantly; directly. [Colloq.] "The railroad cars drive slap into the city." Thackeray. 
Slippery; smooth; crafty; hypocritical. [Prov. Eng.] Slape ale, plain ale, as opposed to medicated or mixed ale. [Prov. Eng.] 
To strike violently and at random, esp. with an edged instrument; to lay about one indiscriminately with blows; to cut hastily and carelessly. Hewing and slashing at their idle shades. Spenser. 
Swampy or wet lands overgrown with bushes. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett. 
Wet and dirty; slushy. [Prov. Eng.] 
A thin, narrow strip or bar of wood or metal; as, the slats of a window blind. 
An argillaceous rock which readily splits into thin plates; argillite; argillaceous schist. 
To set a dog upon; to bait; to slat. See 2d Slat, 3. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] [Written also slete.] Ray. 
One who lays slates, or whose occupation is to slate buildings. 
Any terrestrial isopod crustacean of the genus Porcellio and allied genera; a sow bug. 
A slab of stone used as a veneer for coarse masonry. Knight. 
Resembling slate; having the nature, appearance, or properties, of slate; composed of thin parallel plates, capable of being separated by splitting; as, a slaty color or texture. Slaty cleavage (Min.), cleavage, as of rocks, into thin leaves or plates, like those of slate; -- applied especially to those cases in which the planes of cleavage are not parallel to the planes of stratification. It is now believed to be caused by the compression which the strata have undergone. -- Slaty gneiss (Min.), a variety of gneiss in which the scales of mica or crystals of hornblende, which are usually minute, form thin laminæ, rendering the rock easily cleavable. 
One of a race of people occupying a large part of Eastern and Northern Europe, including the Russians, Bulgarians, Roumanians, Servo-Croats, Slovenes, Poles, Czechs, Wends or Sorbs, Slovaks, etc. [Written also Slave, and Sclav.] 
See Slav. 
To drudge; to toil; to labor as a slave. 
To enslave. Marston. 
To smear with saliva issuing from the mouth; to defile with drivel; to slabber. 
Saliva driveling from the mouth. Of all mad creatures, if the learned are right, It is the slaver kills, and not the bite. Pope. 
A maidservant. [Colloq. & Jocose Eng.] 
Slavonic. -- n. 
Sliced cabbage served as a salad, cooked or uncooked. 
To put to death with a weapon, or by violence; hence, to kill; to put an end to; to destroy. With this sword then will I slay you both. Chaucer. I will slay the last of them with the sword. Amos ix. 1. I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk. Shak. 
One who slays; a killer; a murderer; a destrroyer of life. 
See Sleazy. 
To slay. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To separate, as threads; to divide, as a collection of threads; to sley; -- a weaver's term. 
Wanting firmness of texture or substance; thin; flimsy; as, sleazy silk or muslin. [Spelt also slazy.] 
To convey or transport on a sled; as, to sled wood or timber. 
To travel or convey in a sledge or sledges. Howitt. 
A large, heavy hammer, usually wielded with both hands; -- called also sledge hammer. With his heavy sledge he can it beat. Spenser. 
To slay. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
With ease and dexterity. [Low] 
That which makes smooth; varnish. [R.] 
To make even and smooth; to render smooth, soft, and glossy; to smooth over. Sleeking her soft alluring locks. Milton. Gentle, my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks. Shak. 
imp. of Sleep. Slept. Chaucer. 
A natural and healthy, but temporary and periodical, suspension of the functions of the organs of sense, as well as of those of the voluntary and rational soul; that state of the animal in which there is a lessened acuteness of sensory perception, a confusion of ideas, and a loss of mental control, followed by a more or less unconscious state. "A man that waketh of his sleep." Chaucer. O sleep, thou ape of death. Shak. 
The ruddy duck. 
A slayer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The part of a mortar extending from the chamber to the trunnions. 
Hail or snow, mingled with rain, usually falling, or driven by the wind, in fine particles. 
To snow or hail with a mixture of rain. 
Of or pertaining to sleet; characterized by sleet; as, a sleety storm; sleety weather. 
See Sleave, untwisted thread. 
To furnish with sleeves; to put sleeves into; as, to sleeve a coat. 
To sley, or prepare for use in the weaver's sley, or slaie. Shak. 
Sly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A vehicle moved on runners, and used for transporting persons or goods on snow or ice; -- in England commonly called a sledge. Sleigh bell, a small bell attached either to a horse when drawing a slegh, or to the sleigh itself; especially a globular bell with a loose ball which plays inside instead of a clapper. 
See Slant. [Obs.] 
imp. of Sleep. Slept. Chaucer. 
A burrowing rodent (Spalax typhlus), native of Russia and Asia Minor. It has the general appearance of a mole, and is destitute of eyes. Called also mole rat. 
imp. & p. p. of Sleep. 
The track of man or beast as followed by the scent. [Scot.] Halliwell. 
imp. of Slay. 
See Slue. 
Somewhat drunk. [Slang] 
Sloth; idleness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To separate or part the threads of, and arrange them in a reed; -- a term used by weavers. See Sleave, and Sleid. 
One who, or that which, slices; specifically, the circular saw of the lapidary. 
Sleek; smooth. "Both slick and dainty." Chapman. 
To make sleek or smoth. "Slicked all with sweet oil." Chapman. 
A wide paring chisel. 
imp. & p. p. of Slide. 
To pass from one note to another with no perceptible cassation of sound. 
A small dislocation in beds of rock along a line of fissure. Dana. 
See Slidder. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The red-bellied terrapin (Pseudemys rugosa). [Local, U. S. ] Slider pump, a form of rotary pump. 
Sleight. Spenser. 
To disregard, as of little value and unworthy of notice; to make light of; as, to slight the divine commands. Milton. The wretch who slights the bounty of the skies. Cowper. To slight off, to treat slightingly; to drive off; to remove. [R.] -- To slight over, to run over in haste; to perform superficially; to treat carelessly; as, to slight over a theme. "They will but slight it over." Bacon. 
The act of slighting; the manifestation of a moderate degree of contempt, as by neglect or oversight; neglect; indignity. 
Slightly. [Obs. or Poetic] Think not so slight of glory. Milton. 
Such. [Obs. or Scot.] 
See Slyly. South. 
Bitumen. [Archaic] Slime had they for mortar. Gen. xi. 3. 
To smear with slime. Tennyson. 
In a state of slimness; in a slim manner; slenderly. 
Flimsy; frail. [Colloq. U.S.] 
Of or pertaining to slime; resembling slime; of the nature of slime; viscous; glutinous; also, covered or daubed with slime; yielding, or abounding in, slime. Slimy things did crawl with legs Upon the slimy sea. Coleridge. 
To pass a rope round, as a cask, gun, etc., preparatory to attaching a hoisting or lowering tackle. 
A drink composed of spirit (usually gin) and water sweetened. sling. 
To cast prematurely; -- said of female beasts; as, a cow that slinks her calf. 
Thin; lank. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.] 
A portion of the columns of a newspaper or other work struck off by itself; a proof from a column of type when set up and in the galley. 
Sledge runners on which a skip is dragged in a mine. 
Slippery. 
A cut; as, slish and slash. [Colloq.] Shak. 
3d. pers. sing. pres. of Slide. Chaucer. 
A long cut; a narrow opening; as, a slit in the ear. Gill slit. (Anat.) See Gill opening, under Gill. 
To sneak. [Prov. Eng.] 
To cut; to split; to separate. [Obs.] Holland. 
To cut or divide into long, thin pieces, or into very small pieces; to cut or rend lengthwise; to slit; as, to sliver wood. Shak. They 'll sliver thee like a turnip. Sir W. Scott. 
Bait made of pieces of small fish. Cf. Kibblings. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett. 
A layer of earth between coal seams. 
A narrow piece of timber which holds together large pieces; a slat; as, the sloats of a cart. 
A small, bitter, wild European plum, the fruit of the blackthorn (Prunus spinosa); also, the tree itself. 
To hit hard, esp. with little attention to aim or the like, as in cricket or boxing; to slug. [Cant or Slang] 
The war cry, or gathering word, of a Highland clan in Scotland; hence, any rallying cry. Sir W. Scott. 
Sluggish. [Obs.] Somnolence that is sloggy slumbering Chaucer. 
See Sloakan. 
Slumber. [Prov. Eng.] 
Sluggish; slow. [Prov. Eng.] 
A vessel having one mast and fore-and-aft rig, consisting of a boom-and-gaff mainsail, jibs, staysail, and gaff topsail. The typical sloop has a fixed bowsprit, topmast, and standing rigging, while those of a cutter are capable of being readily shifted. The sloop usually carries a centerboard, and depends for stability upon breadth of beam rather than depth of keel. The two types have rapidly approximated since 1880. One radical distinction is that a slop may carry a centerboard. See Cutter, and Illustration in Appendix. Sloop of war, formerly, a vessel of war rigged either as a ship, brig, or schooner, and mounting from ten to thirty-two guns; now, any war vessel larger than a gunboat, and carrying guns on one deck only. 
Dirty water; water in which anything has been washed or rinsed; water from wash-bowls, etc. Slop basin, or Slop bowl, a basin or bowl for holding slops, especially for receiving the rinsings of tea or coffee cups at the table. -- Slop molding (Brickmaking), a process of manufacture in which the brick is carried to the drying ground in a wet mold instead of on a pallet. 
To overflow or be spilled as a liquid, by the motion of the vessel containing it; -- often with over. 
Ready-made clothes; also, among seamen, clothing, bedding, and other furnishings. 
Sloping. "Down the slope hills." Milton. A bank not steep, but gently slope. Bacon. 
In a sloping manner. [Obs.] Milton. 
To form with a slope; to give an oblique or slanting direction to; to direct obliquely; to incline; to slant; as, to slope the ground in a garden; to slope a piece of cloth in cutting a garment. 
State of being slope. Sir H. Wotton. 
Wet, so as to spatter easily; wet, as with something slopped over; muddy; plashy; as, a sloppy place, walk, road. 
Sloping; inclined. 
To shut with violence; to slam; as, to slot a door. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
The track of a deer; hence, a track of any kind. Milton. As a bloodhound follows the slot of a hurt deer. Sir W. Scott. 
Any one of several species of arboreal edentates constituting the family Bradypodidæ, and the suborder Tardigrada. They have long exserted limbs and long prehensile claws. Both jaws are furnished with teeth (see Illust. of Edentata), and the ears and tail are rudimentary. They inhabit South and Central America and Mexico. 
To be idle. [Obs.] Gower. 
To cause to hang down; to depress at the side; as, to slouth the hat. 
Slow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A wet place; a swale; a side channel or inlet from a river. 
imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew. Chaucer. 
The dead mass separating from a foul sore; the dead part which separates from the living tissue in mortification. 
To form a slough; to separate in the form of dead matter from the living tissues; -- often used with off, or away; as, a sloughing ulcer; the dead tissues slough off slowly. 
To cast off; to discard as refuse. New tint the plumage of the birds, And slough decay from grazing herds. Emerson. 
A man or boy habitually negligent of neathess and order; -- the correlative term to slattern, or slut. Pope. He became a confirmed sloven. Macaulay. 
imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew. Chaucer. 
Slowly. Let him have time to mark how slow time goes In time of sorrow. Shak. 
To render slow; to slacken the speed of; to retard; to delay; as, to slow a steamer. Shak. 
To go slower; -- often with up; as, the train slowed up before crossing the bridge. 
A moth. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
imp. of Slee,to slay. Chaucer. 
In a slow manner; moderately; not rapidly; not early; not rashly; not readly; tardly. 
Milk sickness. 
Lit., skilled mechanical work, such as that required in wood carving; trade work; hence, a system (usually called the sloyd system) of manual training in the practical use of the tools and materials used in the trades, and of instruction in the making and use of the plans and specifications connected with trade work. The sloyd system derives its name from the fact that it was adopted or largely developed from a similar Swedish system, in which wood carving was a chief feature. Its purpose is not only to afford practical skill in some trade, but also to develop the pupils mentally and physically. 
A roll of wool slightly twisted; a rove; -- called also slubbing. 
To draw out and twist slightly; -- said of slivers of wool. 
See Slime, 4. Sludge hole, the hand-hole, or manhole, in a steam boiler, by means of which sediment can be removed. 
Miry; slushy. 
To turn about a fixed point, usually the center or axis, as a spar or piece of timber; to turn; -- used also of any heavy body. 
To turn about; to turn from the course; to slip or slide and turn from an expected or desired course; -- often followed by round. 
See Sloough, 2. [Local] 
Any one of numerous species of terrestrial pulmonate mollusks belonging to Limax and several related genera, in which the shell is either small and concealed in the mantle, or altogether wanting. They are closely allied to the land snails. 
To move slowly; to lie idle. [Obs.] To slug in sloth and sensual delight. Spenser. 
To make sluggish. [Obs.] Milton. 
To become reduced in diameter, or changed in shape, by passing from a larger to a smaller part of the bore of the barrel; -- said of a bullet when fired from a gun, pistol, or other firearm. 
Sluggish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Half-roasted ore. 
A long box or trough through which water flows, -- used for washing auriferous earth. Sluice gate, the sliding gate of a sluice. 
An artificial channel into which water is let by a sluice; specifically, a trough constructed over the bed of a stream, so that logs, lumber, or rubbish can be floated down to some convenient place of delivery. 
Falling copiously or in streams, as from a sluice. And oft whole sheets descend of sluicy rain. Dryden. 
Same as Slimes. 
The gross amount; the mass; the lump. [Scot.] 
To lump; to throw into a mess. These different groups . . . are exclusively slumped together under that sense. Sir W. Hamilton. 
To fall or sink suddenly through or in, when walking on a surface, as on thawing snow or ice, partly frozen ground, a bog, etc., not strong enough to bear the person. The latter walk on a bottomless quag, into which unawares they may slump. Barrow. 
Easily broken through; boggy; marshy; swampy. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett. 
imp. & p. p. of Sling. Slung shot, a metal ball of small size, with a string attached, used by ruffians for striking. 
imp. & p. p. of Slink. 
To sing or perform in a smooth, gliding style; to connect smoothly in performing, as several notes or tones. Busby. 
A mark, thus [&upslur; or ], connecting notes that are to be sung to the same syllable, or made in one continued breath of a wind instrument, or with one stroke of a bow; a tie; a sign of legato. 
A mixture of white lead and lime, with which the bright parts of machines, such as the connecting rods of steamboats, are painted to be preserved from oxidation. 
Abounding in slush; characterized by soft mud or half-melted snow; as, the streets are slushy; the snow is slushy. "A dark, drizzling, slushy day." Blackw. Mag. 
Slush. [Prov. Eng.] 
Slyly. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. 
In a sly manner; shrewdly; craftily. Honestly and slyly he it spent. Chaucer. 
A narrow passage between two buildings, as between the transept and chapter house of a monastery. [Eng.] 
A small sailing vessel, commonly rigged as a sloop, used chiefly in the coasting and fishing trade. 
As if with a smack or slap. [Colloq.] 
A sharp, quick noise; a smack. Like the faint smacking of an after kiss. Dryden. 
Smallclothes. [Colloq.] Hood. Dickens. 
To make little or less. [Obs.] 
See Small, n., 2, 3. 
In a small quantity or degree; with minuteness. [R.] Ascham. 
A deep blue pigment or coloring material used in various arts. It is a vitreous substance made of cobalt, potash, and calcined quartz fused, and reduced to a powder. 
To cause a smart in. "A goad that . . . smarts the flesh." T. Adams. 
To make smart or spruce; -- usually with up. [Colloq.] She had to go and smarten herself up somewhat. W. Black. 
To break in pieces by violence; to dash to pieces; to crush. Here everything is broken and smashed to pieces. Burke. 
To break up, or to pieces suddenly, as the result of collision or pressure. 
Taste; tincture; smack. [Obs.] Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it. Shak. 
To smack. [Obs.] Banister (1578). 
Cottage cheese. [Local, U. S.] 
Tending to smear or soil; adhesive; viscous. Rowe. 
The smew. [Prov. Eng.] 
To smoke; to blacken with smoke; to rub with soot. [Obs.] 
To smooth. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
The matter secreted by any of the sebaceous glands. Specifically: (a) The soapy substance covering the skin of newborn infants. (b) The cheesy, sebaceous matter which collects between the glans penis and the foreskin. 
A salt glaze on pottery, made by adding common salt to an earthenware glaze. 
An aromatic preparation of carbonate of ammonia and, often, some scent, to avoid or relieve faintness, headache, or the like. 
of Smell. 
Any one of numerous species of small silvery salmonoid fishes of the genus Osmerus and allied genera, which ascend rivers to spawn, and sometimes become landlocked in lakes. They are esteemed as food, and have a peculiar odor and taste. 
To melt or fuse, as, ore, for the purpose of separating and refining the metal; hence, to reduce; to refine; to flux or scorify; as, to smelt tin. 
See Smirk. 
To look amorously or wantonly; to smirk. 
A smithy. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A match for firing a charge of powder, as in blasting; a fuse. 
To smite. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Not having a smile. 
One who smiles. Tennyson. 
A little smile. [R.] Those happy smilets That played on her ripe lip. Shak. 
To melt. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
To smear with something which stains, or makes dirty; to smutch; to begrime; to soil; to sully. I'll . . . with a kind of umber smirch my face. Shak. 
A smutch; a dirty stain. 
To smile in an affected or conceited manner; to smile with affected complaisance; to simper. 
A forced or affected smile; a simper. The bride, all smirk and blush, had just entered. Sir W. Scott. 
Nice,; smart; spruce; affected; simpering. "So smirk, so smooth." Spenser. 
Smirk; smirking. 
imp. & p. p. of Smite. Spenser. Smit with the beauty of so fair a scene. Cowper. 
3d. pers. sing. pres. of Smite. Chaucer. 
To strike; to collide; to beat. [Archaic] The heart meleth, and the knees smite together. Nah. ii. 10. 
The act of smiting; a blow. 
One who smites. I give my back to the smiters. Isa. l. 6. 
To beat into shape; to fprge. [Obs.] Chaucer. What smith that any [weapon] smitheth. Piers Plowman. 
The workshop of a smith, esp. a blacksmith; a smithery; a stithy. [Written also smiddy.] Under a spreading chestnut tree The village smithy stands. Lonfellow. 
Fine clay or ocher made up into balls, used for marking sheep. [Eng.] Woodsward. 
Of or pertaining to a smock; resembling a smock; hence, of or pertaining to a woman. Smock mill, a windmill of which only the cap turns round to meet the wind, in distinction from a post mill, whose whole building turns on a post. -- Smock race, a race run by women for the prize of a smock. [Prov. Eng.] 
To provide with, or clothe in, a smock or a smock frock. Tennyson. 
Same as Puffball. 
A chimney; esp., a pipe serving as a chimney, as the pipe which carries off the smoke of a locomotive, the funnel of a steam vessel, etc. 
To smother; to suffocate; to choke. [Obs.] Holinshed. Palsgrave. 
A young salmon two or three years old, when it has acquired its silvery color. 
See Smutch. 
To suffocate or smother. [Written also smore.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir T. More. Burns. 
Causing no resistance to a body sliding along its surface; frictionless. 
Smoothly. Chaucer. Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep. Shak. 
To make smooth; to make even on the surface by any means; as, to smooth a board with a plane; to smooth cloth with an iron. Specifically: -- (a) To free from obstruction; to make easy. Thou, Abelard! the last sad office pay, And smooth my passage to the realms of day. Pope. 
To flatter; to use blandishment. Because I can not flatter and speak fair, Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive and cog. Shak. 
To smother. See Smoor. [Obs.] Some dying vomit blood, and some were smored. Du Bartas. 
imp. (and rare p. p.) of Smite. 
To kiss closely. [Obs.] P. Stubbes. 
To smutch; to soil; as, to smouch the face. 
A dark soil or stain; a smutch. 
The quality or state of being smudged, soiled, or blurred. C. A. Young. 
Studiously neat or nice, especially in dress; spruce; affectedly precise; smooth and prim. They be so smug and smooth. Robynson (More's Utopia). The smug and scanty draperies of his style. De Quincey. A young, smug, handsome holiness has no fellow. Beau & Fl. 
To make smug, or spruce. [Obs.] Thus said, he smugged his beard, and stroked up fair. Dryton. 
In a smug manner. [R.] Gay. 
Bad, soft coal, containing much earthy matter, found in the immediate locality of faults. 
A stain; a dirty spot. B. Jonson. 
To blacken with smoke, soot, or coal. [Written also smooch.] B. Jonson. 
Of or pertaining to Smyrna. -- n. 
See Snecket. [Prov. Eng.] 
A pipefish of the genus Syngnathus. See Pipefish. 
One of the secondary branches of an antler. Snag boat, a steamboat fitted with apparatus for removing snags and other obstructions in navigable streams. [U.S.] -- Snag tooth. Same as Snag, 2. How thy snag teeth stand orderly, Like stakes which strut by the water side. J. Cotgrave. 
Full of snags; snaggy. 
A spiral cam, or a flat piece of metal of spirally curved outline, used for giving motion to, or changing the position of, another part, as the hammer tail of a striking clock. 
Any species of the order Ophidia; an ophidian; a serpent, whether harmless or venomous. See Ophidia, and Serpent. 
To wind round spirally, as a large rope with a smaller, or with cord, the small rope lying in the spaces between the strands of the large one; to worm. 
To crawl like a snake. 
A snap beetle. 
To bevel the end of a timber to fit against an inclined surface. 
Snappish. [Colloq.] 
To snarl. [Obs.] Spenser. 
An instrument, consisting usually of a wireloop or noose, for removing tumors, etc., by avulsion. Snare drum, the smaller common military drum, as distinguished from the bass drum; -- so called because (in order to render it more resonant) it has stretched across its lower head a catgut string or strings. 
To catch with a snare; to insnare; to entangle; hence, to bring into unexpected evil, perplexity, or danger. Lest that too heavenly form . . . snare them. Milton. The mournful crocodile With sorrow snares relenting passengers. Shak. 
One who lays snares, or entraps. 
To form raised work upon the outer surface of (thin metal ware) by the repercussion of a snarling iron upon the inner surface. 
A knot or complication of hair, thread, or the like, difficult to disentangle; entanglement; hence, intricate complication; embarrassing difficulty. 
The act of snarling; a growl; a surly or peevish expression; an angry contention. 
Resembling, or consisting of, snares; entangling; insidious. Spiders in the vault their snary webs have spread. Dryden. 
The snuff, or burnt wick, of a candle. [Obs.] Bacon. 
To attempt to seize something suddenly; to catch; -- often with at; as, to snatch at a rope. 
a kind of block with an opening in one side to receive the bight of a rope. 
The handle of a scythe; a snead. [Variously written in England snead, sneed, sneath, sneeth, snathe, etc.; in Scotland written sned.] 
The handle of a scythe; a snead. [Variously written in England snead, sneed, sneath, sneeth, snathe, etc.; in Scotland written sned.] 
To lop; to prune. [Prov. Eng.] 
Snow. [Obs. or Scot.] Burns. 
To hide, esp. in a mean or cowardly manner. [Obs.] "[Slander] sneaks its head." Wake. 
A ball bowled so as to roll along the ground; -- called also grub. [Cant] R. A. Proctor. 
Like a sneak; sneaking. 
A reprimand; a rebuke. [Obs.] My lord, I will not undergo this sneap without reply. Shak. 
To reprimand; to sneap. [Obs.] "Scold and sneb the good oak." Spenser. 
To fasten by a hatch; to latch, as a door. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Sneck up, be silent; shut up; hold your peace. Shak. 
A door latch. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Sneck band, a latchstring. Burns. -- Sneck drawer, a latch lifter; a bolt drawer; hence, a sly person; a cozener; a cheat; -- called also sneckdraw. -- Sneck drawing, lifting the latch. 
To lop; to snathe. [Prov. Eng.] 
One who sneers. 
To emit air, chiefly through the nose, audibly and violently, by a kind of involuntary convulsive force, occasioned by irritation of the inner membrane of the nose. Not to be sneezed at, not to be despised or contemned; not to be treated lightly. [Colloq.] "He had to do with old women who were not to be sneezed at." Prof. Wilson. 
A sudden and violent ejection of air with an audible sound, chiefly through the nose. 
Active; brisk; nimble; quick; sharp. [Archaic or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] That horny-handed, snell, peremptory little man. Dr. J. Brown. 
A short line of horsehair, gut, etc., by which a fishhook is attached to a longer line. 
The fat of a deer. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
The clear of mucus; to blow. [Obs.] "Snetting his nose." Holland. 
To snow; to abound. [Obs.] It snewed in his house of meat and drink. Chaucer. 
To check; to sneap; to sneb. [Obs.] Him would he snib sharply for the nones. Chaucer. 
A reprimand; a snub. [Obs.] Marston. 
A slight hit or tip of the ball, often unintentional. 
To hit (a ball) lightly. R. A. Proctor. 
See Sneck. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Snick up, shut up; silenced. See Sneck up, under Sneck. Give him money, George, and let him go snick up. Beau & Fl. 
Tricky; deceptive; contemptible; as, a snide lawyer; snide goods. [Slang] 
To draw air audibly up the nose; to snuff; -- sometimes done as a gesture of suspicion, offense, or contempt. So ye grow squeamish, gods, and sniff at heaven. M. Arnold. 
The act of sniffing; perception by sniffing; that which is taken by sniffing; as, a sniff of air. 
from Snift. Snifting valve, a small valve opening into the atmosphere from the cylinder or condenser of a steam engine, to allow the escape of air when the piston makes a stroke; -- so called from the noise made by its action. 
To chop off; to cut. [Prov. Eng.] 
To sneak. [Prov. Eng.] 
To cut off the nip or neb of, or to cut off at once with shears or scissors; to clip off suddenly; to nip; hence, to break off; to snatch away. Curbed and snipped in my younger years by fear of my parents from those vicious excrescences to which that age was subject. Fuller. The captain seldom ordered anything out of the ship's stores . . . but I snipped some of it for my own share. De Foe. 
Any one of numerous species of limicoline game birds of the family Scolopacidæ, having a long, slender, nearly straight beak. 
Like a snipe. 
A snipe. [Obs. or Scot.] Carew. 
To blow, as the nose; to snuff, as a candle. [Obs. or Scot.] 
Mucus from the nose; snot. 
A townsman. [Canf] 
Snobbish. [R.] E. B. Ramsay. 
A fillet; a headband; a snood. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Trimmed; smooth; neat; trim; sly; cunning; demure. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A short candle end used for igniting a fuse. Raymond. 
To bind or braid up, as the hair, with a snood. [Scot.] 
To lurk; to lie in ambush. [Obs.] 
A short sleep; a nap. [Colloq.] 
To doze; to drowse; to take a short nap; to slumber. [Colloq.] 
To breathe with a rough, hoarse, nasal voice in sleep. 
A harsh nasal noise made in sleep. 
One who snores. 
The act of snorting; the sound produced in snorting. 
To expel throught the nostrils with a snort; to utter with a snort. Keats. 
To blow, wipe, or clear, as the nose. 
Foul with snot; hence, mean; dirty. -- Snort"ti*ly, adb. -- Snot"ti*ness, n. 
To furnish with a nozzle or point. 
Resembling a beast's snout. The nose was ugly, long, and big, Broad and snouty like a pig. Otway. 
A square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig only in that she has a trysail mast close abaft the mainmast, on which a large trysail is hoisted. 
To fall in or as snow; -- chiefly used impersonally; as, it snows; it snowed yesterday. 
To scatter like snow; to cover with, or as with, snow. Donne. Shak. 
The hooded merganser. [Local, U.S.] 
To sob with convulsions. [Obs.] Bailey. 
Having a short, flat nose, slightly turned up; as, the snub- nosed eel. Snub-nosed cachalot (Zoöl.), the pygmy sperm whale. 
To lie snug or quiet. [Obs.] Herbert. 
A miser; a sneaking fellow. [Obs.] 
The part of a candle wick charred by the flame, whether burning or not. If the burning snuff happens to get out of the snuffers, you have a chance that it may fall into a dish of soup. Swift. 
To crop the snuff of, as a candle; to take off the end of the snuff of. To snuff out, to extinguish by snuffing. 
A small box for carrying snuff about the person. 
Same as Lug, n., 3. 
To lie close; to snuggle; to snudge; -- often with up, or together; as, a child snugs up to its mother. 
A snug, cozy place. [Colloq.] Dickens. 
In a snug manner; closely; safely. 
An upward bend in a piece of timber; the sheer of a vessel. 
A curved plank, placed edgewise, to work in the bows of a vessel. R. H. Dana, Jr. 
The act of soaking, or the state of being soaked; also, the quantity that enters or issues by soaking. 
Wetting thoroughly; drenching; as, a soaking rain. -- Soak"ing*ly, adv. 
Full of moisture; wet; soppy. 
See Sole, the fish. [Obs.] 
A dirty pond. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A chain by which a leading horse draws a plow. Knight. 
A substance which dissolves in water, thus forming a lather, and is used as a cleansing agent. Soap is produced by combining fats or oils with alkalies or alkaline earths, usually by boiling, and consists of salts of sodium, potassium, etc., with the fatty acids (oleic, stearic, palmitic, etc.). See the Note below, and cf. Saponification. By extension, any compound of similar composition or properties, whether used as a cleaning agent or not. 
Any tree of the genus Sapindus, esp. Sapindus saponaria, the fleshy part of whose fruit is used instead of soap in washing linen; -- also called soap tree. 
The act of soaring; upward flight. This apparent soar of the hooded falcon. Coleridge. 
See 3d Sore. [Obs.] 
See Sore, reddish brown. Soar falcon. (Zoöl.) See Sore falcon, under Sore. 
Sweet. 
To soak. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
To sigh with a sudden heaving of the breast, or with a kind of convulsive motion; to sigh with tears, and with a convulsive drawing in of the breath. Sobbing is the same thing [as sighing], stronger. Bacon. She sighed, she sobbed, and, furious with despair. She rent her garments, and she tore her hair. Dryden. 
A series of short, convulsive inspirations, the glottis being suddenly closed so that little or no air enters into the lungs. 
To make sober. There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain, And drinking largely sobers us again. Pope. 
To become sober; -- often with down. Vance gradually sobered down. Ld. Lytton. 
A tenure of lands and tenements by a certain or determinate service; a tenure distinct from chivalry or knight's service, in which the obligations were uncertain. The service must be certain, in order to be denominated socage, as to hold by fealty and twenty shillings rent. [Written also soccage.] 
Naturally growing in groups or masses; -- said of many individual plants of the same species. 
A plowshare. Edin. Encyc. 
A combination of two hooks which close upon each other, by means of a spring, as soon as the fish bites. [U. S.] 
Having a socket. Dawkins. 
Wet; soaky. [Prov. Eng.] 
One who holds lands or tenements by socage; a socager. Cowell. 
A custom of tenants to grind corn at the lord's mill. Cowell. 
The rock dove. [Prov. Eng.] 
imp. of Seethe. 
That stratum of the surface of the soil which is filled with the roots of grass, or any portion of that surface; turf; sward. She there shall dress a sweeter sod Than Fancy's feet have ever trod. Collins. 
To cover with sod; to turf. 
Pertaining to, or containing, soda. "Sodaic powder." Ure. 
Boiled; seethed; also, soaked; heavy with moisture; saturated; as, sodden beef; sodden bread; sodden fields. 
To be seethed; to become sodden. 
To soak; to make heavy with water. 
Consisting of sod; covered with sod; turfy. Cotgrave. 
See Solder. 
Var. of Soldier. [Dial. or Slang] 
Of or pertaining to sodium; containing sodium. 
A common metallic element of the alkali group, in nature always occuring combined, as in common salt, in albite, etc. It is isolated as a soft, waxy, white, unstable metal, so readily oxidized that it combines violently with water, and to be preserved must be kept under petroleum or some similar liquid. Sodium is used combined in many salts, in the free state as a reducer, and as a means of obtaining other metals (as magnesium and aluminium) is an important commercial product. Symbol Na (Natrium). Atomic weight 23. Specific gravity 0.97. Sodium amalgam, an alloy of sodium and mercury, usually produced as a gray metallic crystalline substance, which is used as a reducing agent, and otherwise. -- Sodium bicarbonate, a white crystalline substance, HNaCO3, with a slight alkaline taste resembling that of sodium carbonate. It is found in many mineral springs and also produced artificially,. It is used in cookery, in baking powders, and as a source of carbonic acid gas (carbon dioxide) for soda water. Called also cooking soda, saleratus, and technically, acid sodium carbonate, primary sodium carbonate, sodium dicarbonate, etc. -- Sodium carbonate, a white crystalline substance, Na2CO3.10H2O, having a cooling alkaline taste, found in the ashes of many plants, and produced artifically in large quantities from common salt. It is used in making soap, glass, paper, etc., and as alkaline agent in many chemical industries. Called also sal soda, washing soda, or soda. Cf. Sodium bicarbonate, above and Trona. Sodium chloride, common, or table, salt, NaCl. -- Sodium hydroxide, a white opaque brittle solid, NaOH, having a fibrous structure, produced by the action of quicklime, or of calcium hydrate (milk of lime), on sodium carbonate. It is a strong alkali, and is used in the manufacture of soap, in making wood pulp for paper, etc. Called also sodium hydrate, and caustic soda. By extension, a solution of sodium hydroxide. 
Carnal copulation in a manner against nature; buggery. Gen. xix. 5. 
A large wooden vessel for holding water; a cowl. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Dr. H. More. 
A word compounded of so and ever, used in composition with who, what, where, when, how, etc., and indicating any out of all possible or supposable persons, things, places, times, ways, etc. It is sometimes used separate from the pronoun or adverb. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required. Luke xii. 48. What great thing soever a man proposed to do in his life, he should think of achieving it by fifty. Sir W. Temple. 
A long seat, usually with a cushioned bottom, back, and ends; - - much used as a comfortable piece of furniture. Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round. Cowper. Sofa bed, a sofa so contrived that it may be extended to form a bed; -- called also sofa bedstead. 
The under side of the subordinate parts and members of buildings, such as staircases, entablatures, archways, cornices, or the like. See Illust. of Lintel. 
Same as Sufi. 
Same as Sufism. 
A soft or foolish person; an idiot. [Colloq.] G. Eliot. 
Softly; without roughness or harshness; gently; quietly. Chaucer. A knight soft riding toward them. Spenser. 
Be quiet; hold; stop; not so fast. Soft, you; a word or two before you go. Shak. 
Any one attached to a Mohammedan mosque, esp. a student of the higher branches of theology in a mosque school. [Written also sophta.] 
To make soft or more soft. Specifically: -- (a) To render less hard; -- said of matter. Their arrow's point they soften in the flame. Gay. 
To become soft or softened, or less rude, harsh, severe, or obdurate. 
In a soft manner. 
Var. of Soldier. [Dial. or Slang]  R. H. Dana, Jr. 
Filled with water; soft with moisture; sodden; soaked; wet; as, soggy land or timber. 
Ho; -- a word used in calling from a distant place; a sportsman's halloo. Shak. 
To feed, as cattle or horses, in the barn or an inclosure, with fresh grass or green food cut for them, instead of sending them out to pasture; hence (such food having the effect of purging them), to purge by feeding on green food; as, to soil a horse. 
To enrich with soil or muck; to manure. Men . . . soil their ground, not that they love the dirt, but that they expect a crop. South. 
A marshy or miry place to which a hunted boar resorts for refuge; hence, a wet place, stream, or tract of water, sought for by other game, as deer. As deer, being stuck, fly through many soils, Yet still the shaft sticks fast. Marston. To take soil, to run into the mire or water; hence, to take refuge or shelter. O, sir, have you taken soil here It is well a man may reach you after three hours' running. B. Jonson. 
To become soiled; as, light colors soil sooner than dark ones. 
That which soils or pollutes; a soiled place; spot; stain. A lady's honor . . . will not bear a soil. Dryden. 
Dirty; soiled. [Obs.] Fuller. 
An evening party; -- distinguished from levee, and matinée. 
An Asiatic leguminous herb (Glycine Soja) the seeds of which are used in preparing the sauce called soy. 
Var. of Soldier. [Dial. or Slang] 
See Soc. 
An African anthropoid ape, supposed to be a variety of the chimpanzee. 
Gold; -- so called from its brilliancy, color, and value. Chaucer. 
See Solus. 
A leguminous plant (Æschynomene aspera) growing in moist places in Southern India and the East Indies. Its pithlike stem is used for making hats, swimming-jackets, etc. [Written also solah, shola.] 
To take comfort; to be cheered. Shak. 
A solan goose. 
A hot, oppressive wind which sometimes blows in the Mediterranean, particularly on the eastern coast of Spain. 
A loft or upper chamber; a garret room. [Obs.] [Written also soler, solere, sollar.] Oxf. Gloss. 
Born under the predominant influence of the sun. [Obs.] And proud beside, as solar people are. Dryden. 
Solar. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
Solace. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. & p. p. of Sell. 
Solary; military pay. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A sultan. [Obs.] Milton. 
A metal or metallic alloy used when melted for uniting adjacent metallic edges or surfaces; a metallic coment. Hence, anything which unites or cements. Hard solder, a solder which fuses only at a red heat, as one composed of zinc and copper, or silver and copper, etc. -- Soft solder, a solder fusible at comparatively low temperatures; as, plumbers' solder, consisting of two parts lead and one part tin, is a soft solder. 
One who solders. 
A small Italian coin worth a sou or a cent; the twentieth part of a lira. 
The bottom of the body of a plow; -- called also slade; also, the bottom of a furrow. (b) (Far.) The horny substance under a horse's foot, which protects the more tender parts. (c) (Fort.) The bottom of an embrasure. (d) (Naut.) A piece of timber attached to the lower part of the rudder, to make it even with the false keel. Totten. (e) (Mining) The seat or bottom of a mine; -- applied to horizontal veins or lodes. Sole leather, thick, strong, used for making the soles of boots and shoes, and for other purposes. 
To furnish with a sole; as, to sole a shoe. 
Single; unmarried; as, a feme sole. Corporation sole. See the Note under Corporation. 
Singly; alone; only; without another; as, to rest a cause solely one argument; to rely solelyn one's own strength. 
Made in form; ceremonious; as, solemn war; conforming with all legal requirements; as, probate in solemn form. Burrill. Jarman. Greenleaf. Solemn League and Covenant. See Covenant, 2. 
A cradle, as for a broken limb. See Cradle, 6. 
Skillful; clever; crafty. [Obs.] Cudworth. 
pl. of Solo. 
Having all the geometrical dimensions; cubic; as, a solid foot contains 1,728 solid inches. 
A magnitude which has length, breadth, and thickness; a part of space bounded on all sides. Solid of revolution. (Geom.) See Revolution, n., 5. 
A platform in a shaft, especially one of those between the series of ladders in a shaft. 
To cover, or provide with, a sollar. 
A tune, air, strain, or a whole piece, played by a single person on an instrument, or sung by a single voice. 
A celebrated Athenian lawmaker, born about 638 b. c.; hence, a legislator; a publicist; -- often used ironically. 
Not adhering; loose; -- opposed to adnate; as, a solute stipule. 
The act or process by which a body (whether solid, liquid, or gaseous) is absorbed into a liquid, and, remaining or becoming fluid, is diffused throughout the solvent; also, the product reulting from such absorption. 
To explain; to resolve; to unfold; to clear up out to a result or conclusion; as, to solve a doubt; to solve difficulties; to solve a problem. True piety would effectually solve such scruples. South. God shall solve the dark decrees of fate. Tickell. 
A solution; an explanation. [Obs.] Shak. 
One who, or that which, solves. 
Solely. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The whole axial portion of an animal, including the head, neck, trunk, and tail. B. G. Wilder. 
In some degree; somewhat. [Written also sumdel, sumdeale, and sumdele.] [Obs.] "She was somedeal deaf." Chaucer. Thou lackest somedeal their delight. Spenser. 
One of the actual or ideal serial segments of which an animal, esp. an articulate or vertebrate, is composed; somatome; metamere. -- So*mit`ic, a. 
To summon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A summoner; esp., one who summons to an ecclesiastical court. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
To summon; to cite. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Jesus Christ, the Savior; -- called the Son of God, and the Son of man. We . . . do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. 1 John iv. 14. Who gave His Son sure all has given. Keble. 
Uttered, as an element of speech, with tone or proper vocal sound, as distinguished from mere breath sound; intonated; voiced; tonic; the opposite of nonvocal, or surd; -- sid of the vowels, semivowels, liquids, and nasals, and particularly of the consonants b, d, g hard, v, etc., as compared with their cognates p, t, k, f, etc., which are called nonvocal, surd, or aspirate. -- n. 
An extended composition for one or two instruments, consisting usually of three or four movements; as, Beethoven's sonatas for the piano, for the violin and piano, etc. 
The art of making songs or verse; metrical composition; versification. A half-effected inscription. Written with little skill of songcraft. Longfellow. 
To compose sonnets. "Strains that come almost to sonneting." Milton. 
See Soncy. [Scot.] Burns. 
A knitted worsted jacket, worn over the waist of a woman's dress. 
Same as Sudra. 
Same as Suji. 
Speedy; quick. [Obs.] Shak. 
See Sunnite. 
In the western United States, one who settles on government land before it is legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair advantage. 
Soon. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
Skin of bacon. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
A preparation of antimony with which Mohammedan men anoint their eyelids. 
A kind of dolphin (Platanista Gangeticus) native of the river Ganges; the Gangetic dolphin. It has a long, slender, somewhat spatulate beak. [Written also susu.] 
A black substance formed by combustion, or disengaged from fuel in the process of combustion, which rises in fine particles, and adheres to the sides of the chimney or pipe conveying the smoke; strictly, the fine powder, consisting chiefly of carbon, which colors smoke, and which is the result of imperfect combustion. See Smoke. 
To cover or dress with soot; to smut with, or as with, soot; as, to soot land. Mortimer. 
One who, or that which, soothes. 
To black or foul with soot. [R.] Sootied with noisome smoke. Chapman. 
To steep or dip in any liquid. 
See Soap. [Obs.] 
A contraction of Soph ister. [Colloq.] 
A contraction of Sophomore. [Colloq.] 
See Sufi. 
See Softa. 
To lay asleep; to put to sleep; to quiet. [Obs.] The king's declaration for the sopiting of all Arminian heresies. Fuller. 
Profound sleep from which a person can be roused only with difficulty. 
One who sops. Johnson. 
Soaked or saturated with liquid or moisture; very wet or sloppy. It [Yarmouth] looked rather spongy and soppy. Dickens. 
Above; before; over; upon. 
A North American rail (Porzana Carolina) common in the Eastern United States. Its back is golden brown, varied with black and white, the front of the head and throat black, the breast and sides of the head and neck slate-colored. Called also American rail, Carolina rail, Carolina crake, common rail, sora rail, soree, meadow chicken, and orto. King sora, the Florida gallinule. 
A salt of sorbic acid. 
A kind of beverage; sherbet. Smolett. 
Pertaining to, or obtained from, the rowan tree, or sorb; specifically, designating an acid, C 
An unfermentable sugar, isomeric with glucose, found in the ripe berries of the rowan tree, or sorb, and extracted as a sweet white crystalline substance; -- called also mountain-ash sugar. 
See Sward. [R.] Milton. 
Foul matter; excretion; dregs; filthy, useless, or rejected matter of any kind; specifically (Med.), the foul matter that collects on the teeth and tongue in low fevers and other conditions attended with great vital depression. 
A sordine. 
Sordidness. [Obs.] 
Reddish brown; sorrel. [R.] Sore falcon. (Zoöl.) See Sore, n., 1. 
A young hawk or falcon in the first year. 
pl. of Soredium. 
Same as Sora. 
A young buck in the third year. See the Note under Buck. Shak. 
In a sore manner; grievously; painfully; as, to be sorely afflicted. 
A heap of carpels belonging to one flower. 
A genus of small Insectivora, including the common shrews. 
The three-beared rocking, or whistlefish. [Prov. Eng.] 
Indian millet and its varieties. See Sorghum. 
pl. of Sorus. 
To obtrude one's self on another for bed and board. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
One who obtrudes himself on another for bed and board. [Scot.] De Quncey. 
Of a yellowish or redish brown color; as, a sorrel horse. 
A yellowish or redish brown color. 
One of various plants having a sour juice; especially, a plant of the genus Rumex, as Rumex Acetosa, Rumex Acetosella, etc. Mountain sorrel. (Bot.) See under Mountain. -- Red sorrel. (Bot.) (a) A malvaceous plant (Hibiscus Sabdariffa) whose acid calyxes and capsules are used in the West Indies for making tarts and acid drinks. (b) A troublesome weed (Rumex Acetosella), also called sheep sorrel. -- Salt of sorrel (Chem.), binoxalate of potassa; -- so called because obtained from the juice of Rumex Acetosella, or Rumex Axetosa. -- Sorrel tree (Bot.), a small ericaceous tree (Oxydendrum arboreum) whose leaves resemble those of the peach and have a sour taste. It is common along the Alleghanies. Called also sourwood. -- Wood sorrel (Bot.), any plant of the genus Oxalis. 
The uneasiness or pain of mind which is produced by the loss of any good, real or supposed, or by diseappointment in the expectation of good; grief at having suffered or occasioned evil; regret; unhappiness; sadness. Milton. How great a sorrow suffereth now Arcite! Chaucer. The safe and general antidote against sorrow is employment. Rambler. 
To feel pain of mind in consequence of evil experienced, feared, or done; to grieve; to be sad; to be sorry. Sorrowing most of all . . . that they should see his face no more. Acts xx. 38. I desire no man to sorrow for me. Sir J. Hayward. 
A lot; also, a kind of divination by means of lots. Sortes Homericæ or Virgilianæ Etym: [L., Homeric or Virgilian lots], a form of divination anciently practiced, which consisted in taking the first passage on which the eye fell, upon opening a volume of Homer or Virgil, or a passage drawn from an urn which several were deposited, as indicating future events, or the proper course to be pursued. In later times the Bible was used for the same purpose by Christians. 
Chance; lot; destiny. [Obs.] By aventure, or sort, or cas [chance]. Chaucer. Let blockish Ajax draw The sort to fight with Hector. Shak. 
Letters, figures, points, marks, spaces, or quadrats, belonging to a case, separately considered. Out of sorts (Print.), with some letters or sorts of type deficient or exhausted in the case or font; hence, colloquially, out of order; ill; vexed; disturbed. -- To run upon sorts (Print.), to use or require a greater number of some particular letters, figures, or marks than the regular proportion, as, for example, in making an index. 
Suitable. [Obs.] otgrave. 
Pertaining to a sort. [Obs.] Locke. 
One who, or that which, sorts. 
pl. of Sors. 
The sudden issuing of a body of troops, usually small, from a besieged place to attack or harass the besiegers; a sally. 
One of the fruit dots, or small clusters of sporangia, on the back of the fronds of ferns. 
Sorrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Green vitriol, or some earth imregnated with it. 
The letters signified by the signal ( . . . ---. . . ) prescribed by the International Radiotelegraphic Convention of 1912 for use by ships in distress. 
To fall at once into a chair or seat; to sit lazily. [Obs.] Swift. 
To throw in a negligent or careless manner; to toss. [Obs.] Swift. 
Anything dirty or muddy; a dirty puddle. [Prov. Eng.] 
Sottish; foolish; stupid; dull. [Obs.] "Rich, but sot." Marston. 
To stupefy; to infatuate; to besot. [R.] I hate to see a brave, bold fellow sotted. Dryden. 
To tipple to stupidity. [R.] Goldsmith. 
Sweet. [Obs.] Chaucer. Fairfax. 
Sooth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
a. & p. p. of Sot. Befooled; deluded; besotted. [Obs.] "This sotted priest." Chaucer. 
An old French copper coin, equivalent in value to, and now displaced by, the five-centime piece (sou. 
See Subah. 
See 1st Souse. 
See Souse. [Obs.] penser. 
A sultan. [Obs.] 
A sow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A small drain; an adit. [Prov. Eng.] W. M. Buchanan. 
To whistle or sigh, as the wind. 
imp. & p. p. of Seek. 
To suck. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Sole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Sole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To afford suitable sustenance. [Obs.] Warner. 
To indue with a soul; to furnish with a soul or mind. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Furnished with a soul; possessing soul and feeling; -- used chiefly in composition; as, great-souled Hector. "Grecian chiefs . . . largely souled." Dryden. 
Sound. [Obs.] aucer. 
The air bladder of a fish; as, cod sounds are an esteemed article of food. 
A cuttlefish. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
Soundly. So sound he slept that naught might him awake. Spenser. 
A narrow passage of water, or a strait between the mainland and an island; also, a strait connecting two seas, or connecting a sea or lake with the ocean; as, the Sound between the Baltic and the german Ocean; Long Island Sound. The Sound of Denmark, where ships pay toll. Camden. Sound dues, tolls formerly imposed by Denmark on vessels passing through the Baltic Sound. 
To explore, as the bladder or urethra, with a sound; to examine with a sound; also, to examine by auscultation or percussion; as, to sound a patient. 
To ascertain the depth of water with a sounding line or other device. I sound as a shipman soundeth in the sea with his plummet to know the depth of sea. Palsgrave. 
Any elongated instrument or probe, usually metallic, by which cavities of the body are sounded or explored, especially the bladder for stone, or the urethra for a stricture. 
Capable of being sounded. 
To sound. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Soused. See Souse. [Obs.] 
A liquid food of many kinds, usually made by boiling meat and vegetables, or either of them, in water, -- commonly seasoned or flavored; strong broth. Soup kitchen, an establishment for preparing and supplying soup to the poor. -- Soup ticket, a ticket conferring the privilege of receiving soup at a soup kitchen. 
To sup or swallow. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To breathe out. [Obs.] amden. 
To sweep. See Sweep, and Swoop. [Obs.] 
That part of a flail which strikes the grain. Knight. 
Resembling soup; souplike. 
A sour or acid substance; whatever produces a painful effect. Spenser. 
To become sour; to turn from sweet to sour; as, milk soon sours in hot weather; a kind temper sometimes sours in adversity. They keep out melancholy from the virtuous, and hinder the hatred of vice from souring into severity. Addison. 
See Sauerkraut. 
To have origin or source; to rise; to spring. [Obs.] Now might men ask whereof that pride sourdeth. Chaucer. 
In a sour manner; with sourness. 
Source. See Source. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To swoop or plunge, as a bird upon its prey; to fall suddenly; to rush with speed; to make a sudden attack. For then I viewed his plunge and souse Into the foamy main. Marston. Jove's bird will souse upon the timorous hare. J. Dryden. Jr. 
To pounce upon. [R.] [The gallant monarch] like eagle o'er his serie towers, To souse annoyance that comes near his nest. Shak. 
The act of sousing, or swooping. As a falcon fair That once hath failed or her souse full near. Spenser. 
With a sudden swoop; violently. Young. 
Soot. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A shoemaker; a cobbler. [Obs.] Chaucer. There is no work better than another to please God: . . . to wash dishes, to be a souter, or an apostle, -- all is one. Tyndale. 
Lying toward the south; situated at the south, or in a southern direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the south, or coming from the south; blowing from the south; southern; as, the south pole. "At the south entry." Shak. South-Sea tea (Bot.) See Yaupon. 
, adv. 
To come to the meridian; to cross the north and south line; -- said chiefly of the moon; as, the moon souths at nine. 
A variant of Sovereign. [Poetic] On thy bald, awful head, O sovran Blanc. Coleridge. 
To sew. See Sew. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The female of swine, or of the hog kind. 
To scatter seed for growth and the production of a crop; -- literally or figuratively. They that sow in tears shall reap in joi. Ps. cxxvi. 5. 
See Sowens. 
In India, a mounted soldier. 
See Souse. [Obs.] 
Sultan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A nutritious article of food, much used in Scotland, made from the husk of the oat by a process not unlike that by which common starch is made; -- called flummery in England. [Written also sowans, and sowins.] 
One who, or that which, sows. 
See Sowens. 
See Soul, v. i. [Obs.] 
p. p. of Sow. 
To sound. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Souse. [Obs.] ryden. 
See Souter. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
The soja, a kind of bean. See Soja. 
To solve, to clear up; as, to soyl all other texts. [Obs.] Tyndate. 
Prey. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Filled with care; anxious. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag. 
A spring or mineral water; -- so called from a place of this name in Belgium. 
A kind of spar; earth flax, or amianthus. [Obs.] oodward. 
One of the intervals, or open places, between the lines of the staff. Absolute space, Euclidian space, etc. See under Absolute, Euclidian, etc. -- Space line (Print.), a thin piece of metal used by printers to open the lines of type to a regular distance from each other, and for other purposes; a lead. Hansard. -- Space rule (Print.), a fine, thin, short metal rule of the same height as the type, used in printing short lines in tabular matter. 
To walk; to rove; to roam. [Obs.] And loved in forests wild to space. Spenser. 
To arrange or adjust the spaces in or between; as, to space words, lines, or letters. 
A nail one or two inches long, of iron, brass, tin, or tinner iron, with a hole through the flattened head, used to mark stations in underground surveying. 
A hart or stag three years old. [Written also spaid, spayade.] 
One of that suit of cards each of which bears one or more figures resembling a spade. "Let spades be trumps!" she said. Pope. 
To dig with a spade; to pare off the sward of, as land, with a spade. 
One who, or that which, spades; specifically, a digging machine. 
A fleshy spike of flowers, usually inclosed in a leaf called a spathe. 
An impotent person. 
To foretell; to divine. [Scot.] 
See 1st Spade. 
imp. of Speak. 
Specky. [Obs.] hapman. 
A strengthening cross timber. 
The shoulder. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A chip or fragment, especially a chip of stone as struck off the block by the hammer, having at least one feather-edge. 
To break into small pieces, as ore, for the purpose of separating from rock. Pryce. 
To give off spalls, or wedge-shaped chips; -- said of stone, as when badly set, with the weight thrown too much on the outer surface. 
Spelter. [Colloq.] 
To split off; to cleave off, as chips from a piece of timber, with an ax. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 
imp. & p. p. of Spin. 
A rope having its ends made fast so that a purchase can be hooked to the bight; also, a rope made fast in the center so that both ends can be used. 
To be matched, as horses. [U. S.] 
To wean. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
To spangle. [Obs.] 
To spring; to bound; to leap. [Scot.] But when they spang o'er reason's fence, We smart for't at our own expense. Ramsay. 
A bound or spring. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
A spangle or shining ornament. [Obs.] With glittering spangs that did like stars appear. Spenser. 
To strike, as the breech, with the open hand; to slap. 
A blow with the open hand; a slap. 
To move with a quick, lively step between a trot and gallop; to move quickly. Thackeray. 
An old name for a nonmetallic mineral, usually cleavable and somewhat lustrous; as, calc spar, or calcite, fluor spar, etc. It was especially used in the case of the gangue minerals of a metalliferous vein. Blue spar, Cube spar, etc. See under Blue, Cube, etc. 
A general term any round piece of timber used as a mast, yard, boom, or gaff. 
A kind of small nail used by shoemakers. 
The right of bowling again at a full set of pins, after having knocked all the pins down in less than three bowls. If all the pins are knocked down in one bowl it is a double spare; in two bowls, a single spare. 
One who spares. 
To sprinkle; to moisten by sprinkling; as, to sparge paper. 
To sparkle. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To play the spark, beau, or lover. A sure sign that his master was courting, or, as it is termed, sparking, within. W. Irwing. 
Resembling spar, or consisting of spar; abounding with spar; having a confused crystalline structure; spathose. Sparry iron (Min.), siderite. See Siderite (a). -- Sparry limestone (Min.), a coarsely crystalline marble. 
Placed irregularly and distantly; scattered; -- applied to branches, leaves, peduncles, and the like. 
To scatter; to disperse. [Obs.] Spenser. 
An Anglo-Saxon battle-ax, or halberd. [Obs.] He hath a sparth of twenty pound of weight. Chaucer. 
The hedge sparrow. [Prov. Eng.] 
Sparing; parsimonious. [Obs.] 
An involuntary and unnatural contraction of one or more muscles or muscular fibers. 
imp. of Spit. [Obs. or R.] 
A young oyster or other bivalve mollusk, both before and after it first becomes adherent, or such young, collectively. 
To emit spawn; to emit, as spawn. 
To dispute. [R.] Smart. 
To slap, as with the open hand; to clap together; as the hands. [Local, U.S.] Little Isabel leaped up and down, spatting her hands. Judd. 
A river flood; an overflow or inundation. Burns. Gareth in a showerful spring Stared at the spate. Tennyson. 
A spathe. 
A special involucre formed of one leaf and inclosing a spadix, as in aroid plants and palms. See the Note under Bract, and Illust. of Spadix. 
The shoulder. [Scot.] 
A disease of horses characterized by a bony swelling developed on the hock as the result of inflammation of the bones; also, the swelling itself. The resulting lameness is due to the inflammation, and not the bony tumor as popularly supposed. Harbaugh. Bog spavin, a soft swelling produced by distention of the capsular ligament of the hock; -- called also blood spavin. -- Bone spavin, spavin attended with exostosis; ordinary spavin. 
See Spa. 
A splinter or fragment, as of wood or stone. See Spall. 
Scattered or ejected spittle. 
To scatter spittle from the mouth; to spit, as saliva. Why must he sputter, spawl, and slaver it In vain, against the people's favorite. Swift. 
The buds or branches produced from underground stems. 
To remove or extirpate the ovaries of, as a sow or a bitch; to castrate (a female animal). 
The male of the red deer in his third year; a spade. 
The office of speaker; as, the speakership of the House of Representatives. 
To pierce with a spear; to kill with a spear; as, to spear a fish. 
To shoot into a long stem, as some plants. See Spire. Mortimer. 
Having the form of a spear. 
Species; kind. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A woodpecker. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Sherwood. 
abl. of L. species sort, kind. Used in the phrase in specie, that is, in sort, in kind, in (its own) form. "[The king] expects a return in specie from them" [i. e., kindness for kindness]. Dryden. In specie (Law), in precise or definite form; specifically; according to the exact terms; of the very thing. 
Coin; hard money. 
The blubber of whales or other marine mammals; also, the fat of the hippopotamus. Speck falls (Naut.), falls or ropes rove through blocks for hoisting the blubber and bone of whales on board a whaling vessel. 
A small etheostomoid fish (Ulocentra stigmæa) common in the Eastern United States. 
To cause the presence of specks upon or in, especially specks regarded as defects or blemishes; to spot; to speckle; as, paper specked by impurities in the water used in its manufacture. Carnation, purple, azure, or specked with gold. Milton. 
A woodpecker. See Speight. 
imp. & p. p. of Speed. 
Species; sort. [Obs.] 
To make a speech; to harangue. [R.] 
A device for automatically counting the revolutions or pulsations of an engine or other machine; -- called also simply counter. 
Not dilatory or slow; quick; swift; nimble; hasty; rapid in motion or performance; as, a speedy flight; on speedy foot. I will wish her speedy strength. Shak. Darts, which not the good could shun, The speedy ould outfly. Dryden. 
A sphere. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To ask. [Scot.] See Spere. 
To stab. [Obs.] Gammer Gurton's Needle. 
To ask. See Spere. Sir W. Scott. 
A regulus consisting essentially of nickel, obtained as a residue in fusing cobalt and nickel ores with silica and sodium carbonate to make smalt. 
To speak. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A small stick or rod used as a spike in thatching; a splinter. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
A spelk, or splinter. [Obs.] Holland. 
To supply the place of for a time; to take the turn of, at work; to relieve; as, to spell the helmsman. 
Capable of being spelt. Carlyle. 
imp. & p. p. of Spell. Spelled. 
A species of grain (Triticum Spelta) much cultivated for food in Germany and Switzerland; -- called also German wheat. 
Spelter. [Colloq.] 
To split; to break; to spalt. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
One who has the care of the spence, or buttery. [Obs.] Promptorium Parvulorum. 
To break ground; to continue working. 
Exhausted of spawn or sperm; -- said especially of fishes. Spent ball, a ball shot from a firearm, which reaches an object without having sufficient force to penetrate it. 
To search; to pry; to ask; to inquire. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] [Written also speer, speir.] Jamieson. 
A sphere. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A charge of wash for the still. Knight. 
The male fecundating fluid; semen. See Semen. Sperm cell (Physiol.), one of the cells from which the spermatozoids are developed. -- Sperm morula. (Biol.) Same as Spermosphere. 
Spermaceti. Sperm oil, a fatty oil found as a liquid, with spermaceti, in the head cavities of the sperm whale. -- Sperm whale. (Zoöl.) See in the Vocabulary. 
To disperse. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To spit; to throw out. [Obs.] 
Spittle. [Obs.] 
That which is vomited; vomit. 
One who spews. 
Wet; soggy; inclined to spew. 
A mineral found usually in thin, wedge-shaped crystals of a yellow or green to black color. It is a silicate of titanium and calcium; titanite. 
A body or space contained under a single surface, which in every part is equally distant from a point within called its center. 
The quality or state of being spherial; roundness; as, the sphericity of the planets, or of a drop of water. 
Any one of numerous species of sand wasps of the genus Sphex and allied genera. These wasps have the abdomen attached to the thorax by a slender pedicel. See Illust. of Sand wasp, under Sand. Sphex fly (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small dipterous flies of the genus Conops and allied genera. The form of the body is similar to that of a sphex. 
Any one of numerous species of large moths of the family Sphingidæ; -- called also hawk moth. 
A spy; a scout. [Obs.] Bacon. 
A kind of bandage passing, by successive turns and crosses, from an extremity to the trunk; -- so called from its resemblance to a spike of a barley. 
Spicewood. 
An American shrub (Lindera Benzoin), the bark of which has a spicy taste and odor; -- called also Benjamin, wild allspice, and fever bush. 
A spike or nail. [Prov. Eng.] Spick and span, quite new; that is, as new as a spike or nail just made and a chip just split; brand- new; as, a spick and span novelty. See Span-new. Howell. 
Any one of numerous species of arachnids comprising the order Araneina. Spiders have the mandibles converted into poison fangs, or falcers. The abdomen is large and not segmented, with two or three pairs of spinnerets near the end, by means of which they spin threads of silk to form cocoons, or nests, to protect their eggs and young. Many species spin also complex webs to entrap the insects upon which they prey. The eyes are usually eight in number (rarely six), and are situated on the back of the cephalothorax. See Illust. under Araneina. 
imp. & p. p. of Spy. 
Spite. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A woodpecker. See Speight. [Obs.] 
A pin or peg used to stop the vent in a cask; also, the plug of a faucet or cock. Spigot and faucet joint, a joint for uniting pipes, formed by the insertion of the end of one pipe, or pipe fitting, into a socket at the end of another. 
A kind of flower cluster in which sessile flowers are arranged on an unbranched elongated axis. Spike grass (Bot.), either of two tall perennial American grasses (Uniola paniculata, and U. latifolia) having broad leaves and large flattened spikelets. -- Spike rush. (Bot.) See under Rush. -- Spike shell (Zoöl.), any pteropod of the genus Styliola having a slender conical shell. -- Spike team, three horses, or a horse and a yoke of oxen, harnessed together, a horse leading the oxen or the span. [U.S.] 
Spike lavender. See Lavender. Oil of spike (Chem.), a colorless or yellowish aromatic oil extracted from the European broad-leaved lavender, or aspic (Lavendula Spica), used in artist's varnish and in veterinary medicine. It is often adulterated with oil of turpentine, which it much resembles. 
Furnished or set with spikes, as corn; fastened with spikes; stopped with spikes. A youth, leaping over the spiked pales, . . . was caught by those spikes. Wiseman. 
To supply with a spile or a spigot; to make a small vent in, as a cask. 
To cover or decorate with slender pieces of wood, metal, ivory, etc.; to inlay. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To relieve a sail from the pressure of the wind, so that it can be more easily reefed or furled, or to lessen the strain. Spilling line (Naut.), a rope used for spilling, or dislodging, the wind from the belly of a sail. Totten. 
A system or method of fishing by means of a number of hooks set on snoods all on one line; -- in North America, called trawl fishing, bultow, or bultow fishing, and long-line fishing. 
imp. & p. p. of Spill. Spilled. 
Anything spilt, or freely poured out; slop; effusion. [Archaic] "With drunken spilth of wine." Shak. Choicest cates, and the flagon's best spilth. R. Browning. 
To shape, as malleable sheet metal, into a hollow form, by bending or buckling it by pressing against it with a smooth hand tool or roller while the metal revolves, as in a lathe. To spin a yarn (Naut.), to tell a story, esp. a long or fabulous tale. -- To spin hay (Mil.), to twist it into ropes for convenient carriage on an expedition. -- To spin street yarn, to gad about gossiping. [Collog.] 
Velocity of rotation about some specified axis. go for a spin take a spin, take a trip in a wheeled vehicle, usu. an automobile. 
Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the backbone, or vertebral column; rachidian; vertebral. 
A sharp appendage to any of a plant; a thorn. 
Furnished with spines; spiny. 
Bleached yarn in making the linen tape called inkle; unwrought inkle. Knight. 
A keyed instrument of music resembling a harpsichord, but smaller, with one string of brass or steel wire to each note, sounded by means of leather or quill plectrums or jacks. It was formerly much used. Dumb spinet. (Mus.) See Manichordon. 
A spinny. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
The chaffinch. 
A small thicket or grove with undergrowth; a clump of trees. [Written also spinney, and spinny.] The downs rise steep, crowned with black fir spinnies. C. Kingsley. 
Thin and long; slim; slender. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
See Spinny. 
Of or pertaining to a spiral; like a spiral. Spiral gear, or Spiral wheel (Mach.), a gear resembling in general a spur gear, but having its teeth cut at an angle with its axis, or so that they form small portions of screws or spirals. -- Spiral gearing, a kind of gearing sometimes used in light machinery, in which spiral gears, instead of bevel gears, are used to transmit motion between shafts that are not parallel. -- Spiral operculum, an operculum whih has spiral lines of growth. -- Spiral shell, any shell in which the whorls form a spiral or helix. -- Spiral spring. See the Note under Spring, n., 4. 
A plane curve, not reëntrant, described by a point, called the generatrix, moving along a straight line according to a mathematical law, while the line is revolving about a fixed point called the pole. Cf. Helix. 
To breathe. [Obs.] Shenstone. 
A tube or fuse for communicating fire to the chargen in blasting. 
To shoot forth, or up in, or as if in, a spire. Emerson. It is not so apt to spire up as the other sorts, being more inclined to branch into arms. Mortimer. 
The part of a spiral generated in one revolution of the straight line about the pole. See Spiral, n. Spire bearer. (Paleon.) Same as Spirifer. 
Having a spire; being in the form of a spire; as, a spired steeple. Mason. 
Rum, whisky, brandy, gin, and other distilled liquors having much alcohol, in distinction from wine and malt liquors. 
By means of the breath. [Obs.] Holder. 
Same as Spurt. 
Of a spiral form; wreathed; curled; serpentine. Hid in the spiry volumes of the snake. Dryden. 
Of or pertaining to a spire; like a spire, tall, slender, and tapering; abounding in spires; as, spiry turrets. "Spiry towns." Thomson. 
Thick; crowded; compact; dense. [Obs.] This spiss and . . . copious, yet concise, treatise. Brerewood. 
To attend to a spit; to use a spit. [Obs.] She's spitting in the kitchen. Old Play. 
The secretion formed by the glands of the mouth; spitle; saliva; sputum. 
A hospital. [Obs.] Shak. 
Filled with, or showing, spite; having a desire to vex, annoy, or injure; malignant; malicious; as, a spiteful person or act. Shak. -- Spite"ful*ly, adv. Spite"ful*ness, n. 
To strike and dash about water, mud, etc.; to dash in such a way as to spatter. 
A guard in the front part of vehicle, to prevent splashing by a mud or water from the horse's heels; -- in the United States commonly called dashboard. 
Displayed; spread out; turned outward; hence, flat; ungainly; as, splay shoulders. Sonwthing splay, something blunt-edged, unhandy, and infelicitous. M. Arnold. 
A slope or bevel, especially of the sides of a door or window, by which the opening is made larged at one face of the wall than at the other, or larger at each of the faces than it is between them. 
A peculiar glandlike but ductless organ found near the stomach or intestine of most vertebrates and connected with the vascular system; the milt. Its exact function in not known. 
To dislke. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket. 
A pouch, as for tobacco. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
A junction or joining made by splicing. 
Of or pertaining to a spline. Splining machine, a machine tool for cutting grooves, key seats, or slots; a slotting machine. 
A thin piece of wood, or other substance, used to keep in place, or protect, an injured part, especially a broken bone when set. 
To split into splints, or thin, slender pieces; to splinter; to shiver. [Obs. or R.] Florio. 
To divide or separate into components; -- often used with up; as, to split up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid. To split hairs, to make distinctions of useless nicety. 
A crack, or longitudinl fissure. 
Divided deeply; cleft. Split pease, hulled pease split for making soup, etc. -- Split pin (Mach.), a pin with one end split so that it may be spread open to secure it in its place. -- Split pulley, a parting pulley. See under Pulley. -- Split ring, a ring with overlapped or interlocked ends which may be sprung apart so that objects, as keys, may be strung upon the ring or removed from it. -- Split ticket, a ballot containing the names of only a portion of the candidates regularly nominated by one party, other names being substituted for those omitted. [U.S.] 
Capable of being spoiled. 
imp. of Speak. 
A projecting handle of a steering wheel. 
To furnish with spokes, as a wheel. 
A kind of drawing knife or planing tool for dressing the spokes of wheels, the shells of blocks, and other curved work. 
An irregular, narrow, projecting part of a field. [Prov. Eng.] 
Any one of numerous species of Spongiæ, or Porifera. See Illust. and Note under Spongiæ. 
See Spongiole. 
See Spunk. 
The chimæra. 
A piece of cane or red with a knot at each end, or a hollow cylinder of wood with a ridge at each end, used to wind thread or yarn upon. Spool stand, an article holding spools of thread, turning on pins, -- used by women at their work. 
To wind on a spool or spools. 
To be driven steadily and swiftly, as before a strong wind; to be driven before the wind without any sail, or with only a part of the sails spread; to scud under bare poles. [Written also spoon.] When virtue spooms before a prosperous gale, My heaving wishes help to fill the sail. Dryden. 
See Spoom. [Obs.] We might have spooned before the wind as well as they. Pepys. 
To take up in, a spoon. 
To act with demonstrative or foolish fondness, as one in love. [Colloq.] 
Same as Spooney. 
The track or trail of any wild animal; as, the spoor of an elephant; -- used originally by travelers in South Africa. 
To follow a spoor or trail. [R.] 
A sporidium. Lindley. 
A plant or an animal, or part of a plant or animal, which has some peculiarity not usually seen in the species; an abnormal variety or growth. See Sporting plant, under Sporting. 
To assume suddenly a new and different character from the rest of the plant or from the type of the species; -- said of a bud, shoot, plant, or animal. See Sport, n., 6. Darwin. 
Sportiveness. [Obs.] 
A variety of the common domestic pigeon, so called from a spot on its head just above its beak. 
To become stained with spots. 
Full of spots; marked with spots. 
To wed; to espouse. [Obs.] This markis hath her spoused with a ring. Chaucer. Though spoused, yet wanting wedlock's solemnize. Spenser. She was found again, and spoused to Marinell. Spenser. 
One who, or that which, spouts. 
Quick; lively' alert. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
p. p. of Spread. Chaucer. 
A young salmon. [Prov. Eng.] 
A billet of wood; a piece of timber used as a prop. 
See Sprack, a. Shak. 
To weaken, as a joint, ligament, or muscle, by sudden and excessive exertion, as by wrenching; to overstrain, or stretch injuriously, but without luxation; as, to sprain one's ankle. 
The act or result of spraining; lameness caused by spraining; as, a bad sprain of the wrist. Sprain fracture (Med.), the separation of a tendon from its point of insertion, with the detachment of a shell of bone to which the tendon is attached. 
imp. of Spring. 
Small branches of a tree; twigs; sprays. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
See Dashboard, n., 2 (b). 
An unlimited expanse of discontinuous points. 
imp. & p. p. of Spread, v. Spread eagle. (a) An eagle with outspread wings, the national emblem of the United States. (b) The figure of an eagle, with its wings elevated and its legs extended; often met as a device upon military ornaments, and the like. (c) (Her.) An eagle displayed; an eagle with the wings and legs extended on each side of the body, as in the double-headed eagle of Austria and Russia. See Displayed, 2. 
A merry frolic; especially, a drinking frolic; a carousal. [Colloq.] 
p. p. of Sprenge. Sprinkled. All the ground with purple blood was sprent. Spenser. 
Thrush. [Local, U.S.] 
A small eyebolt ragged or barbed at the point. 
To mark or adorn with the representation of small branches; to work with sprigs; as, to sprig muslin. 
An active, springly young man. [Obs.] "There came two springals of full tender years." Spenser. Joseph, when he was sold to Potiphar, that great man, was a fair young springall. Latimer. 
To run very rapidly; to run at full speed. A runner [in a quarter-mile race] should be able to sprint the whole way. Encyc. Brit. 
The act of sprinting; a run of a short distance at full speed. Sprint race, a foot race at the highest running speed; -- usually limited to distance under a quarter of a mile. 
To throw out with force from a narrow orifice; to eject; to spurt out. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
To sprout; to bud; to germinate, as barley steeped for malt. 
A shoot; a sprout. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
A small boom, pole, or spar, which crosses the sail of a boat diagonally from the mast to the upper aftmost corner, which it is used to extend and elevate. 
The green woodpecker, or yaffle. 
A salmon in its second year. [Prov. Eng.] 
imp. of Spring. Sprung. 
Young coleworts; Brussels sprouts. Johnson. Brussels sprouts (Bot.) See under Brussels. 
Any coniferous tree of the genus Picea, as the Norway spruce (P. excelsa), and the white and black spruces of America (P. alba and P. nigra), besides several others in the far Northwest. See Picea. 
To dress with affected neatness; to trim; to make spruce. 
To dress one's self with affected neatness; as, to spruce up. 
Same as Sprew. 
To make smart. [Obs.] 
imp. & p. p. of Spring. 
Said of a spar that has been cracked or strained. 
To spring up; to germinate; to spring forward or outward. [Obs.] To sprunt up, to draw one's self up suddenly, as in anger or defiance; to bristle up. [Local, U.S.] 
Active; lively; vigorous. [Obs.] Kersey. 
Having great power of leaping or running; nimble; active. [U.S. & Local Eng.] She is as spry as a cricket. S. Judd (Margaret). If I'm not so large as you, You are not so small as I, And not half so spry. Emerson. 
See Spew. 
See Spook. 
Frothy matter raised on liquids by boiling, effervescence, or agitation; froth; foam; scum. Materials dark and crude, Of spiritous and fiery spume. Milton. 
To froth; to foam. 
Spumous; frothy. [Obs.] 
imp. & p. p. of Spin. Spun hay, hay twisted into ropes for convenient carriage, as on a military expedition. -- Spun silk, a cheap article produced from floss, or short-fibered, broken, and waste silk, carded and spun, in distinction from the long filaments wound from the cocoon. It is often mixed with cotton. -- Spun yarn (Naut.), a line formed of two or more rope-yarns loosely twisted. 
A sponge. [Obs.] 
Full of spunk; quick; spirited. [Colloq.] 
Any stiff, sharp spine, as on the wings and legs of certain burds, on the legs of insects, etc.; especially, the spine on a cock's leg. 
To spur on one' horse; to travel with great expedition; to hasten; hence, to press forward in any pursuit. "Now spurs the lated traveler." Shak. The Parthians shall be there, And, spurring from the fight, confess their fear. Dryden. The roads leading to the capital were covered with multitudes of yeomen, spurring hard to Westminster. Macaulay. Some bold men, . . . by spurring on, refine themselves. Grew. 
To emit foam; to froth; -- said of the emission of yeast from beer in course of fermentation. [Obs.] W. Cartright. 
Any plant of the genus Euphobia. See Euphorbia. Spurge flax, an evergreen shrub (Daphne Gnidium) with crowded narrow leaves. It is native of Southern Europe. -- Spurge laurel, a European shrub (Daphne Laureola) with oblong evergreen leaves. -- Spurge nettle. See under Nettle. -- Spurge olive, an evergreen shrub (Daphne oleoides) found in the Mediterranean region. 
A body of coal left to sustain an overhanding mass. 
An annual herb (Spergula arvensis) with whorled filiform leaves, sometimes grown in Europe for fodder. [Written also spurrey.] Sand spurry (Bot.), any low herb of the genus Lepigonum, mostly found in sandy places. 
To gush or issue suddenly or violently out in a stream, as liquor from a cask; to rush from a confined place in a small stream or jet; to spirt. Thus the small jet, which hasty hands unlock, Spurts in the gardener's eyes who turns the cock. Pope. 
To throw out, as a liquid, in a stream or jet; to drive or force out with violence, as a liquid from a pipe or small orifice; as, to spurt water from the mouth. 
A sudden and energetic effort, as in an emergency; an increased exertion for a brief space. The long, steady sweep of the so-called "paddle" tried him almost as much as the breathless strain of the spurt. T. Hughes. 
To make a sudden and violent exertion, as in an emergency. 
An annular reënforce, to strengthen a place where a hole is made. 
To dispute; to discuss. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
That which is expectorated; a salival discharge; spittle; saliva. 
To gain sight of; to discover at a distance, or in a state of concealment; to espy; to see. One in reading, skipped over all sentences where he spied a note of admiration. Swift. 
To search narrowly; to scrutinize. It is my nature's plague To spy into abuses. Shak. 
A person sent secretly into an enemy's camp, territory, or fortifications, to inspect his works, ascertain his strength, movements, or designs, and to communicate such intelligence to the proper officer. Spy money, money paid to a spy; the reward for private or secret intelligence regarding the enemy. -- Spy Wednesday (Eccl.), the Wednesday immediately preceding the festival of Easter; -- so called in allusion to the betrayal of Christ by Judas Iscariot. 
, n. Act or business of spying. [R.] 
A neatling of a pigeon or other similar bird, esp. when very fat and not fully fledged. 
With a heavy fall; plump. [Vulgar] The eagle took the tortoise up into the air, and dropped him down, squab, upon a rock. L'Estrange. 
To fall plump; to strike at one dash, or with a heavy stroke. [Obs.] 
A small party of men assembled for drill, inspection, or other purposes. 
Sloppy mud. [Prov. Eng.] Tennyson. 
To throw sticls at cocks; to throw anything about awkwardly or irregularly. [Prov. Eng.] Southey. 
The suborder of elasmobranch fishes which comprises the sharks. 
A sudden violent gust of wind often attended with rain or snow. The gray skirts of a lifting squall. Tennyson. Black squall, a squall attended with dark, heavy clouds. -- Thick squall, a black squall accompanied by rain, hail, sleet, or snow. Totten. -- White squall, a squall which comes unexpectedly, without being marked in its approach by the clouds. Totten. 
To cry out; to scream or cry violently, as a woman frightened, or a child in anger or distress; as, the infant squalled. 
A loud scream; a harsh cry. There oft are heard the notes of infant woe, -The short, thick sob, loud scream, and shriller squall. Pope. 
An oilskin hat or southwester; -- a fisherman's name. [U. S.] 
A scale cast off from the skin; a thin dry shred consisting of epithelium. 
The scale, or exopodite, of an antenna of a crustacean. 
An instrument having at least one right angle and two or more straight edges, used to lay out or test square work. It is of several forms, as the T square, the carpenter's square, the try-square., etc. 
Having four equal sides and four right angles; as, a square figure. 
To multiply by itself; as, to square a number or a quantity. 
In a square form or manner. 
An American animal allied to the weasel. [Obs.] Goldsmith. 
A plant and its fruit of the genus Cucurbita, or gourd kind. 
To beat or press into pulp or a flat mass; to crush. 
One who, or that which, squashes. 
The angel fish (Squatina angelus 
To bruise or make flat by a fall. [Obs.] 
The black-bellied plover. 
A female; a woman; -- in the language of Indian tribes of the Algonquin family, correlative of sannup. Old squaw. (Zoöl.) See under Old. 
To utter a shrill, abrupt scream; to squeak harshly. Squawking thrush (Zoöl.), the missel turush; -- so called from its note when alarmed. [Prov. Eng.] 
The American night heron. See under Night. Squawk duck (Zoöl.), the bimaculate duck (Anas glocitans). It has patches of reddish brown behind, and in front of, each eye. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Squall. 
A sharp, shrill, disagreeable sound suddenly utered, either of the human voice or of any animal or instrument, such as is made by carriage wheels when dry, by the soles of leather shoes, or by a pipe or reed. 
A shrill, somewhat prolonged cry. 
A kind of slow match or safety fuse. 
To throw squibs; to utter sarcatic or severe reflections; to contend in petty dispute; as, to squib a little debate. [Colloq.] 
Any one of numerous species of ten-armed cephalopods having a long, tapered body, and a caudal fin on each side; especially, any species of Loligo, Ommastrephes, and related genera. See Calamary, Decacerata, Dibranchiata. 
A square. See 1st Squire. [Obs.] Not the worst of the three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the squier. Shak. 
Any one of numerous stomapod crustaceans of the genus Squilla and allied genera. They make burrows in mud or beneath stones on the seashore. Called also mantis shrimp. See Illust. under Stomapoda. 
To have the axes of the eyes not coincident; -- to be cross- eyed. 
A want of coincidence of the axes of the eyes; strabismus. 
To squint. [Obs.] Shak. 
A square; a measure; a rule. [Obs.] "With golden squire." Spenser. 
One who is half squire and half farmer; -- used humorously. [Eng.] C. Kingsley. 
To twist about briskly with contor 
See Squir. 
To drive or eject in a stream out of a narrow pipe or orifice; as, to squirt water. The hard-featured miscreant coolly rolled his tobacco in his cheek, and squirted the juice into the fire grate. Sir W. Scott. Squirting cucumber. (Bot.) See Ecballium. 
One who, or that which, squirts. 
The body of squires, collectively considered; squirarchy. [Obs.] The flower of chivalry and squiry. Ld. Berbers. 
A celebrated Latin hymn, beginning with these words, commemorating the sorrows of the mother of our Lord at the foot of the cross. It is read in the Mass of the Sorrows of the Virgin Mary, and is sung by Catholics when making "the way of the cross" (Via Crucis). See Station, 7 (c). 
To fix; to establish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A house, shed, or building, for beasts to lodge and feed in; esp., a building or apartment with stalls, for horses; as, a horse stable; a cow stable. Milton. Stable fly (Zoöl.), a common dipterous fly (Stomoxys calcitrans) which is abundant about stables and often enters dwellings, especially in autumn. These files, unlike the common house files, which they resemble, bite severely, and are troublesome to horses and cattle. 
To put or keep in a stable. 
To dwell or lodge in a stable; to dwell in an inclosed place; to kennel. Milton. 
In a stable manner; firmly; fixedly; steadily; as, a government stably settled. 
To lay in a conical or other pile; to make into a large pile; as, to stack hay, cornstalks, or grain; to stack or place wood. To stack arms (Mil.), to set up a number of muskets or rifles together, with the bayonets crossing one another, and forming a sort of conical pile. 
One of the sweet spices used by the ancient Jews in the preparation of incense. It was perhaps an oil or other form of myrrh or cinnamon, or a kind of storax. Ex. xxx. 34. 
A stadium. Donne. 
A landing place or wharf. Knight. 
The five lines and the spaces on which music is written; -- formerly called stave. 
The European wren. [Prov. Eng.] Stag beetle (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of lamellicorn beetles belonging to Lucanus and allied genera, especially L. cervus of Europe and L. dama of the United States. The mandibles are large and branched, or forked, whence the name. The lava feeds on the rotten wood of dead trees. Called also horned bug, and horse beetle. -- Stag dance, a dance by men only. [slang, U.S.] -- Stag hog (Zoöl.), the babiroussa. -- Stag-horn coral (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large branching corals of the genus Madrepora, which somewhat resemble the antlers of the stag, especially Madrepora cervicornis, and M. palmata, of Florida and the West Indies. -- Stag-horn fern (Bot.), an Australian and West African fern (Platycerium alcicorne) having the large fronds branched like a stag's horns; also, any species of the same genus. -- Stag-horn sumac (Bot.), a common American shrub (Rhus typhina) having densely velvety branchlets. See Sumac. -- Stag party, a party consisting of men only. [Slang, U. S.] -- Stag tick (Zoöl.), a parasitic dipterous insect of the family Hippoboscidæ, which lives upon the stag and in usually wingless. The same species lives also upon the European grouse, but in that case has wings. 
To act as a "stag", or irregular dealer in stocks. [Cant] 
To watch; to dog, or keep track of. [Prov. Eng. or Slang] H. Kingsley. 
One of several marked phases or periods in the development and growth of many animals and plants; as, the larval stage; pupa stage; zoea stage. Stage box, a box close to the stage in a theater. -- Stage carriage, a stagecoach. -- Stage door, the actor's and workmen's entrance to a theater. -- Stage lights, the lights by which the stage in a theater is illuminated. -- Stage micrometer, a graduated device applied to the stage of a microscope for measuring the size of an object. -- Stage wagon, a wagon which runs between two places for conveying passengers or goods. -- Stage whisper, a loud whisper, as by an actor in a theater, supposed, for dramatic effect, to be unheard by one or more of his fellow actors, yet audible to the audience; an aside. stage of the game, [Colloq.] stage n. 10. 
To exhibit upon a stage, or as upon a stage; to display publicly. Shak. 
Exhibition on the stage. [Obs.] 
Having an air or manner characteristic of the stage; theatrical; artificial; as, a stagy tone or bearing; --chiefly used depreciatively. 
imp. & p. p. of Stay. 
Sober; grave; steady; sedate; composed; regular; not wild, volatile, or fanciful. "Sober and staid persons." Addison. O'erlaid with black, staid Wisdom's hue. Milton. 
A handle, as of a mop; a stale. [Eng.] 
To give or receive a stain; to grow dim. 
Free from stain; immaculate. Shak. The veery care he took to keep his name Stainless, with some was evidence of shame. Crabbe. 
A flight of stairs with their supporting framework, casing, balusters, etc. To make a complete staircase is a curious piece of architecture. Sir H. Wotton. Staircase shell. (Zoöl.) (a) Any scalaria, or wentletrap. (b) Any species of Solarium, or perspective shell. 
A landing place; an elevated staging upon a wharf for discharging coal, etc., as from railway cars, into vessels. 
The common American bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus); -- so called because one of its notes resembles the sound made in driving a stake into the mud. Called also meadow hen, and Indian hen. 
Stole. 
The stock or handle of anything; as, the stale of a rake. [Written also steal, stele, etc.] But seeling the arrow's stale without, and that the head did go No further than it might be seen. Chapman. 
To make vapid or tasteless; to destroy the life, beauty, or use of; to wear out. Age can not wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety. Shak. 
To make water; to discharge urine; -- said especially of horses and cattle. Hudibras. 
A stalemate. [Obs.] Bacon. 
An ornament in the Corinthian capital resembling the stalk of a plant, from which the volutes and helices spring. 
To approach under cover of a screen, or by stealth, for the purpose of killing, as game. As for shooting a man from behind a wall, it is cruelly like to stalking a deer. Sir W. Scott. 
A high, proud, stately step or walk. Thus twice before, . . . With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch. Shak. The which with monstrous stalk behind him stepped. Spenser. 
Hard as a stalk; resembling a stalk. At the top [it] bears a great stalky head. Mortimer. 
The space left by excavation between pillars. See Post and stall, under Post. Stall reader, one who reads books at a stall where they are exposed for sale. Cries the stall reader, "Bless us! what a word on A titlepage is this!" Milton. 
The right of erecting a stalls in fairs; rent paid for a stall. 
The male organ of flowers for secreting and furnishing the pollen or fecundating dust. It consists of the anther and filament. 
A kind of woolen cloth. [Written also stamine.] [Obs.] 
A picture cut in wood or metal, or made by impression; a cut; a plate. [Obs.] At Venice they put out very curious stamps of the several edifices which are most famous for their beauty and magnificence. Addison. 
To cease, as the flowing of blood. Immediately her issue of blood stanched. Luke viii. 44. 
To prop; to make stanch, or strong. His gathered sticks to stanch the wall Of the snow tower when snow should fall. Emerson. 
To hold a course at sea; as, to stand from the shore; to stand for the harbor. From the same parts of heaven his navy stands. Dryden. 
A weight of from two hundred and fifty to three hundred pounds, -- used in weighing pitch. Microscope stand, the instrument, excepting the eyepiece, objective, and other removable optical parts. -- Stand of ammunition, the projectile, cartridge, and sabot connected together. -- Stand of arms. (Mil.) See under Arms. -- Stand of colors (Mil.), a single color, or flag. Wilhelm (Mil. Dict.) -- To be at a stand, to be stationary or motionless; to be at a standstill; hence, to be perplexed; to be embarrassed. -- To make a stand, to halt for the purpose of offering resistance to a pursuing enemy. 
A stone. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 
imp. of Sting. [Archaic] 
To shoot with pain. [Prov. Eng.] 
Weak; worn out. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To sigh. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Stunk. 
Of or pertaining to tin mines, or tin works. The stannary courts of Devonshire and Cornwall, for the administration of justice among the tinners therein, are also courts of record. Blackstone. 
An apartment or division in a building; a room or chamber. 
The innermost of the ossicles of the ear; the stirrup, or stirrup bone; -- so called from its form. See Illust. of Ear. 
To sort according to its staple; as, to staple cotton. 
A planet supposed to influence one's destiny; (usually pl.) a configuration of the planets, supposed to influence fortune. O malignant and ill-brooding stars. Shak. Blesses his stars, and thinks it luxury. Addison. 
To set or adorn with stars, or bright, radiating bodies; to bespangle; as, a robe starred with gems. "A sable curtain starred with gold." Young. 
To be bright, or attract attention, as a star; to shine like a star; to be brilliant or prominent; to play a part as a theatrical star. W. Irving. 
Stiff; precise; rigid. [R.] Killingbeck. 
A widely diffused vegetable substance found especially in seeds, bulbs, and tubers, and extracted (as from potatoes, corn, rice, etc.) as a white, glistening, granular or powdery substance, without taste or smell, and giving a very peculiar creaking sound when rubbed between the fingers. It is used as a food, in the production of commercial grape sugar, for stiffening linen in laundries, in making paste, etc. 
To stiffen with starch. 
The starling. [Obs.] 
To look earnestly at; to gaze at. I will stare him out of his wits. Shak. To stare in the face, to be before the eyes, or to be undeniably evident. "The law . . . stares them in the face whilst they are breaking it." Locke. 
The act of staring; a fixed look with eyes wide open. "A dull and stupid stare." Churchill. 
One who stares, or gazes. 
Starved. Chaucer. 
Wholly; entirely; absolutely; quite; as, stark mind. Shak. Held him strangled in his arms till he was stark dead. Fuller. Stark naked, wholly naked; quite bare. Strip your sword stark naked. Shak. 
To stiffen. [R.] If horror have not starked your limbs. H. Taylor. 
The European starling. [Prov. Eng.] 
The light of the stars. [R.] The starshine lights upon our heads. R. L. Stevenson. 
To pour out; to empty; to tap and begin drawing from; as, to start a water cask. 
The arm, or level, of a gin, drawn around by a horse. 
In the condition of one starved or starving; parsimoniously. Some boasting housekeeper which keepth open doors for one day, . . . and lives starvedly all the year after. Bp. Hall. 
A slackening or arrest of the blood current in the vessels, due not to a lessening of the heart's beat, but presumably to some abnormal resistance of the capillary walls. It is one of the phenomena observed in the capillaries in inflammation. 
Of, pertaining to, or existing with reference to, a State of the American Union, as distinguished from the general government. [R.] I have no knowledge of any other kind of political citizenship, higher or lower, statal or national. Edward Bates. 
A statement; also, a document containing a statement. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 
At stated times; regularly. 
One who states. 
The principal gold coin of ancient Grece. It varied much in value, the stater best known at Athens being worth about £1 2s., or about $5.35. The Attic silver tetradrachm was in later times called stater. 
A stationary part in or about which another part (the rotor) revolves, esp. when both are large; as, (a) (Elec.) The stationary member of an electrical machine, as of an induction motor. (b) (Steam Turbine) The case inclosing a turbine wheel; the body of stationary blades or nozzles. 
A statue. [Obs.] They spake not a word; But, like dumb statuas or breathing stones, Gazed each on other. Shak. 
To place, as a statue; to form a statue of; to make into a statue. "The whole man becomes as if statued into stone and earth." Feltham. 
State; condition; position of affairs. 
The five horizontal and parallel lines on and between which musical notes are written or pointed; the staff. [Obs.] Stave jointer, a machine for dressing the edges of staves. 
To burst in pieces by striking against something; to dash into fragments. Like a vessel of glass she stove and sank. Longfellow. 
pl. of Staff. "Banners, scarves and staves." R. Browning. Also (stavz), 
To be fixed or set; to stay. [Prov. Eng.] 
A large, strong rope, employed to support a mast, by being extended from the head of one mast down to some other, or to some part of the vessel. Those which lead forward are called fore-and-aft stays; those which lead to the vessel's side are called backstays. See Illust. of Ship. In stays, or Hove in stays (Naut.), in the act or situation of staying, or going about from one tack to another. R. H. Dana, Jr. -- Stay holes (Naut.), openings in the edge of a staysail through which the hanks pass which join it to the stay. -- Stay tackle (Naut.), a tackle attached to a stay and used for hoisting or lowering heavy articles over the side. -- To miss stays (Naut.), to fail in the attempt to go about. Totten. -- Triatic stay (Naut.), a rope secured at the ends to the heads of the foremast and mainmast with thimbles spliced to its bight into which the stay tackles hook. 
To fasten or secure with stays; as, to stay a flat sheet in a steam boiler. 
To change tack; as a ship. 
A corset stiffened with whalebone or other material, worn by women, and rarely by men. How the strait stays the slender waist constrain. Gay. 
Staid; fixed; settled; sober; -- now written staid. See Staid. Bacon. Pope. 
One who upholds or supports that which props; one who, or that which, stays, stops, or restrains; also, colloquially, a horse, man, etc., that has endurance, an a race. 
In a steadfast manner; firmly. Steadfast believe that whatever God has revealed is infallibly true. Wake. 
To make steady; to hold or keep from shaking, reeling, or falling; to make or keep firm; to support; to make constant, regular, or resolute. 
To become steady; to regain a steady position or state; to move steadily. Without a breeze, without a tide, She steadies with upright keel. Coleridge. 
A slice of beef, broiled, or cut for broiling; -- also extended to the meat of other large animals; as, venison steak; bear steak; pork steak; turtle steak. 
A handle; a stale, or stele. [Archaic or Prov. Eng.] And in his hand a huge poleax did bear. Whose steale was iron-studded but not long. Spenser. 
The endmost plank of a strake which stops short of the stem or stern. 
A boat or vessel propelled by steam power; -- generally used of river or coasting craft, as distinguished from ocean steamers. 
Consisting of, or resembling, steam; full of steam; vaporous; misty. Cowper. 
See Steen. Spenser. 
A ladder. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] [Written also stey.] 
A horse, especially a spirited horse for state of war; -- used chiefly in poetry or stately prose. "A knight upon a steed." Chaucer. Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed. Shak. 
A variety of iron intermediate in composition and properties between wrought iron and cast iron (containing between one half of one per cent and one and a half per cent of carbon), and consisting of an alloy of iron with an iron carbide. Steel, unlike wrought iron, can be tempered, and retains magnetism. Its malleability decreases, and fusibility increases, with an increase in carbon. 
To cover, as an electrotype plate, with a thin layer of iron by electrolysis. The iron thus deposited is very hard, like steel. 
A form of balance in which the body to be weighed is suspended from the shorter arm of a lever, which turns on a fulcrum, and a counterpoise is caused to slide upon the longer arm to produce equilibrium, its place upon this arm (which is notched or graduated) indicating the weight; a Roman balance; -- very commonly used also in the plural form, steelyards. 
See Esteem. [Obs.] Spenser. 
See 1st and 2nd Stem. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To line, as a well, with brick, stone, or other hard material. [Written also stean, and stein.] 
Bright; glittering; fiery. [Obs.] His eyen steep, and rolling in his head. Chaucer. 
To soak in a liquid; to macerate; to extract the essence of by soaking; as, to soften seed by steeping it in water. Often used figuratively. Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep. Shak. In refreshing dew to steep The little, trembling flowers. Wordsworth. The learned of the nation were steeped in Latin. Earle. 
To undergo the process of soaking in a liquid; as, the tea is steeping. [Colloq.] 
A precipitous place, hill, mountain, rock, or ascent; any elevated object sloping with a large angle to the plane of the horizon; a precipice. Dryden. We had on each side naked rocks and mountains broken into a thousand irregular steeps and precipices. Addison. Bare steeps, where desolation stalks. Wordsworth. 
Steep; precipitous. [Poetic] No more, my goats, shall I belong you climb The steepy cliffs, or crop the flow'ry thyme. Dryden. 
A young male of the ox kind; especially, a common ox; a castrated taurine male from two to four years old. See the Note under Ox. 
To castrate; -- said of male calves. 
To direct the course of; to guide; to govern; -- applied especially to a vessel in the water. That with a staff his feeble steps did steer. Spenser. 
A rudder or helm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A helmsman, a pilot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To project upward, or make an angle with the horizon or with the line of a vessel's keel; -- said of the bowsprit, etc. 
To elevate or fix at an angle with the horizon; -- said of the bowsprit, etc. 
See Steeve, n. (a). 
A gander. [Written also stag.] [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
See Steek. [Scot.] 
See Steen. 
A small column or pillar, used as a monument, milestone, etc. 
Same as Stela. One of these steles, containing the Greek version of the ordinance, has recently been discovered. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 
A stale, or handle; a stalk. [Obs.] Chaucer. Holland. 
To place or fix firmly or permanently. [Obs.] Shak. 
Starlike; having similar parts radiating from a common center; as, stellate flowers. 
A curved piece of timber to which the two sides of a ship are united at the fore end. The lower end of it is scarfed to the keel, and the bowsprit rests upon its upper end. Hence, the forward part of a vessel; the bow. 
To oppose or cut with, or as with, the stem of a vessel; to resist, or make progress against; to stop or check the flow of, as a current. "An argosy to stem the waves." Shak. [They] stem the flood with their erected breasts. Denham. Stemmed the wild torrent of a barbarous age. Pope. 
To move forward against an obstacle, as a vessel against a current. Stemming nightly toward the pole. Milton. 
One who, or that which, stems (in any of the senses of the verbs). 
Abounding in stems, or mixed with stems; -- said of tea, dried currants, etc. [Colloq.] 
To stanch. [Obs.] Harvey. 
To cause to emit a disagreeable odor; to cause to stink. [Obs.] Young. 
To keep within limits; to restain; to cause to stop, or cease; to stint. Then would he weep, he might not be stent. Chaucer. Yet n'ould she stent Her bitter railing and foul revilement. Spenser. 
To stint; to stop; to cease. And of this cry they would never stenten. Chaucer. 
An allotted portion; a stint. "Attain'd his journey's stent." Mir. for Mag. 
To fix the foot of (a mast) in its step; to erect. To step off, to measure by steps, or paces; hence, to divide, as a space, or to form a series of marks, by successive measurements, as with dividers. 
Walk; passage. Conduct my steps to find the fatal tree. Dryden. 
One of the vast plains in Southeastern Europe and in Asia, generally elevated, and free from wood, analogous to many of the prairies in Western North America. See Savanna. Steppe murrain. (Far.) See Rinderpest. 
A unit of cubic measure in the metric system, being a cubic meter, or kiloliter, and equal to 35.3 cubic feet, or nearly 1 
To stir. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A rudder. See 5th Steer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Helmsman. See 6th Steer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The black tern. 
Having a certain hardness or severity of nature, manner, or aspect; hard; severe; rigid; rigorous; austere; fixed; unchanging; unrelenting; hence, serious; resolute; harsh; as, a sternresolve; a stern necessity; a stern heart; a stern gaze; a stern decree. The sterne wind so loud gan to rout. Chaucer. I would outstare the sternest eyes that look. Shak. When that the poor have cried, Cæsar hath wept; Ambition should be made of sterner stuff. Shak. Stern as tutors, and as uncles hard. Dryden. These barren rocks, your stern inheritance. Wordsworth. 
The after or rear end of a ship or other vessel, or of a boat; the part opposite to the stem, or prow. 
Being in the stern, or being astern; as, the stern davits. Stern board (Naut.), a going or falling astern; a loss of way in making a tack; as, to make a stern board. See Board, n., 8 (b). -- Stern chase. (Naut.) (a) See under Chase, n. (b) A stern chaser. -- Stern chaser (Naut.), a cannon placed in a ship's stern, pointing backward, and intended to annoy a ship that is in pursuit. -- Stern fast (Naut.), a rope used to confine the stern of a ship or other vessel, as to a wharf or buoy. -- Stern frame (Naut.), the framework of timber forms the stern of a ship. -- Stern knee. See Sternson. -- Stern port (Naut.), a port, or opening, in the stern of a ship. -- Stern sheets (Naut.), that part of an open boat which is between the stern and the aftmost seat of the rowers, -- usually furnished with seats for passengers. -- Stern wheel, a paddle wheel attached to the stern of the steamboat which it propels.stern wheeler. 
A star. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Started. Chaucer. 
p. p. of Start. Chaucer. 
To die, or cause to die; to perish. See Starve. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
Let it stand; -- a word used by proof readers to signify that something once erased, or marked for omission, is to remain. 
To cause or direct to remain after having been marked for omission; to mark with the word stet, or with a series of dots below or beside the matter; as, the proof reader stetted a deled footnote. 
To pack or stow, as cargo in a ship's hold. See Steeve. 
To boil slowly, or with the simmering or moderate heat; to seethe; to cook in a little liquid, over a gentle fire, without boiling; as, to stew meat; to stew oysters; to stew apples. 
To be seethed or cooked in a slow, gentle manner, or in heat and moisture. 
To manage as a steward. [Obs.] 
See Stee. 
A sty on the eye. See Styan. 
Antimonic; -- used with reference to certain compounds of antimony. 
Of or pertaining to stichs, or lines; consisting of stichs, or lines. [R.] 
A composing stick. See under Composing. It is usually a frame of metal, but for posters, handbills, etc., one made of wood is used. 
To compose; to set, or arrange, in a composing stick; as, to stick type. [Cant] 
Stuck. And in the sand her ship sticked so fast. Chaucer. They sticked not to give their bodies to be burnt. Sir T. Browne. 
Having the quality of sticking to a surface; adhesive; gluey; viscous; viscid; glutinous; tenacious. Herbs which last longest are those of strong smell, and with a sticky stalk. Bacon. 
An anvil; also, a smith shop. See Stithy. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Bearing a press of canvas without careening much; as, a stiff vessel; -- opposed to crank. Totten. 
The joint next above the hock, and near the flank, in the hind leg of the horse and allied animals; the joint corresponding to the knee in man; -- called also stifle joint. See Illust. under Horse. Stifle bone, a small bone at the stifle joint; the patella, or kneepan. 
To die by reason of obstruction of the breath, or because some noxious substance prevents respiration. You shall stifle in your own report. Shak. 
That part of a pistil which has no epidermis, and is fitted to receive the pollen. It is usually the terminal portion, and is commonly somewhat glutinous or viscid. See Illust. of Stamen and of Flower. 
Stanza. [Obs.] Sackville. 
Of or pertaining to the style of a dial. [Written also stylar.] 
One of the upright pieces in a frame; one of the primary members of a frame, into which the secondary members are mortised. 
See Stylet, 2. 
To drop, or flow in drops; to distill. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Still; quiet; calm. The stilly hour when storms are gone. Moore. 
In a still manner; quietly; silently; softly. Dr. H. More. The hum of either army stilly sounds. Shak. 
Any species of limicoline birds belonging to Himantopus and allied genera, in which the legs are remarkably long and slender. Called also longshanks, stiltbird, stilt plover, and lawyer. 
To raise on stilts, or as if on stilts. 
Unreasonably elevated; pompous; stilted; as, a stilty style. 
A slight gleam or glimmer; a glimpse. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Any sharp organ of offense and defense, especially when connected with a poison gland, and adapted to inflict a wound by piercing; as the caudal sting of a scorpion. The sting of a bee or wasp is a modified ovipositor. The caudal sting, or spine, of a sting ray is a modified dorsal fin ray. The term is sometimes applied to the fang of a serpent. See Illust. of Scorpion. 
Any sting ray. See under 6th Ray. 
Old beer; sharp or strong liquor. [Old Slang] Shall I set a cup of old stingo at your elbow Addison. 
Stinging; able to sting. 
Extremely close and covetous; meanly avaricious; niggardly; miserly; penurious; as, a stingy churl. A stingy, narrow-hearted fellow that had a deal of choice fruit, had not the heart to touch it till it began to be rotten. L'estrange. 
To emit a strong, offensive smell; to send out a disgusting odor. 
To cause to stink; to affect by a stink. 
A strong, offensive smell; a disgusting odor; a stench. Fire stink. See under Fire. -- Stink-fire lance. See under Lance. -- Stink rat (Zoöl.), the musk turtle. [Local, U.S.] -- Stink shad (Zoöl.), the gizzard shad. [Local, U.S.] Stink trap, a stench trap. See under Stench. 
To stop; to cease. [Archaic] They can not stint till no thing be left. Chaucer. And stint thou too, I pray thee. Shak. The damsel stinted in her song. Sir W. Scott. 
Restraint; stoppage. [Obs.] 
The stipule of a leaflet. Gray. 
Supported by a stipe; elevated on a stipe, as the fronds of most ferns, or the pod of certain cruciferous plants. 
A dish formed of oatmeal boiled in water to a certain consistency and frequently stirred, or of oatmeal and dripping mixed together and stirred about in a pan; a hasty pudding. 
A young bullock or heifer. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
Stock; race; family. [Obs.] Bacon. 
Stock; race; family. Blackstone. 
Started; leaped. They privily be stirt into a well. Chaucer. 
imp. of Start, v. i. & t. Chaucer. 
A space of work taken up, or gone over, in a single pass of the needle; hence, by extension, any space passed over; distance. You have gone a good stitch. Bunyan. In Syria the husbandmen go lightly over with their plow, and take no deep stitch in making their furrows. Holland. 
To form land into ridges. To stitch up, to mend or unite with a needle and thread; as, to stitch up a rent; to stitch up an artery. 
To practice stitching, or needlework. 
Strong; stiff; rigid. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
An anvil; a stithy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] He invented also pincers, hammers, iron crows, and the anvil, or stith. Holland. 
To forge on an anvil. The forge that stithied Mars his helm. Shak. 
To stuff; to crowd; to fill full; hence, to make hot and close; to render stifling. Sandys. His chamber was commonly stived with friends or suitors of one kind or other. Sir H. Wotton. 
To be stifled or suffocated. 
The floating dust in flour mills caused by the operation or grinding. De Colange. 
A Dutch coin, and money of account, of the value of two cents, or about one penny sterling; hence, figuratively, anything of little worth. 
Stews; a brothel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To stop; to choke. 
The ermine in its summer pelage, when it is reddish brown, but with a black tip to the tail. The name is sometimes applied also to other brown weasels. 
A menial attendant. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Same as Stock account, below. 
Used or employed for constant service or application, as if constituting a portion of a stock or supply; standard; permanent; standing; as, a stock actor; a stock play; a stock sermon. "A stock charge against Raleigh." C. Kingsley. Stock company (Theater), a company of actors regularly employed at one theater, or permanently acting together in various plays under one management. 
Wet. [Prov. Eng.] G. Eliot. 
heavy; coarse; clumsy. [Colloq.] 
Of or pertaining to stoichiology. 
To poke or stir up a fire; hence, to tend the fires of furnaces, steamers, etc. 
Close; sultry. [Prov. Eng.] 
A long garment, descending to the ankles, worn by Roman women. The stola was not allowed to be worn by courtesans, or by women who had been divorced from their husbands. Fairholt. 
imp. of Steal. 
A stolon. 
A narrow band of silk or stuff, sometimes enriched with embroidery and jewels, worn on the left shoulder of deacons, and across both shoulders of bishops and priests, pendent on each side nearly to the ground. At Mass, it is worn crossed on the breast by priests. It is used in various sacred functions. Groom of the stole, the first lord of the bedchamber in the royal household. [Eng.] Brande & C. 
Having or wearing a stole. After them flew the prophets, brightly stoled In shining lawn. G. Fletcher. 
p. p. of Steal. 
Hopelessly insensible or stupid; not easily aroused or excited; dull; impassive; foolish. 
A trailing branch which is disposed to take root at the end or at the joints; a stole. 
One of the minute apertures between the cells in many serous membranes. 
To stamp with the foot. [Colloq.] "In gallant procession, the priests mean to stomp." R. Browning. 
To stand. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A calculous concretion, especially one in the kidneys or bladder; the disease arising from a calculus. 
The yellowlegs; -- called also stone snipe. See Tattler, 2. [Local, U.S.] 
A North American plant (Collinsonia Canadensis) having a very hard root; horse balm. See Horse balm, under Horse. 
3d pers. sing. present of Stand. 
imp. & p. p. of Stand. 
A small collection of sheaves set up in the field; a shock; in England, twelve sheaves. 
To set up, as sheaves of grain, in stooks. 
A plant from which layers are propagated by bending its branches into the soil. P. Henderson. 
To ramfy; to tiller, as grain; to shoot out suckers. R. D. Blackmore. 
A small channel on the side of a vessel, for the dead-eyes of the backstays. Totten. 
To stum. [R.] 
Originally, a covered porch with seats, at a house door; the Dutch stoep as introduced by the Dutch into New York. Afterward, an out-of-door flight of stairs of from seven to fourteen steps, with platform and parapets, leading to an entrance door some distance above the street; the French perron. Hence, any porch, platform, entrance stairway, or small veranda, at a house door. [U. S.] 
A vessel of liquor; a flagon. [Written also stoup.] Fetch me a stoop of liquor. Shak. 
A post fixed in the earth. [Prov. Eng.] 
One who stoops. 
To rise in clouds, as dust. [Prov. Eng.] 
To regulate the sounds of, as musical strings, by pressing them against the finger board with the finger, or by shortening in any way the vibrating part. 
A device, or piece, as a pin, block, pawl, etc., for arresting or limiting motion, or for determining the position to which another part shall be brought. 
A horizontal working forming one of a series, the working faces of which present the appearance of a flight of steps. 
Stepped; gone; advanced. [Obs.] A poor widow, somedeal stope in age. Chaucer. 
See Stoor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any one of a number of similar complex resins obtained from the bark of several trees and shrubs of the Styrax family. The most common of these is liquid storax, a brown or gray semifluid substance of an agreeable aromatic odor and balsamic taste, sometimes used in perfumery, and in medicine as an expectorant. 
Articles, especially of food, accumulated for some specific object; supplies, as of provisions, arms, ammunition, and the like; as, the stores of an army, of a ship, of a family. His swine, his horse, his stoor, and his poultry. Chaucer. In store, in a state of accumulation; in keeping; hence, in a state of readiness. "I have better news in store for thee." Shak. -- Store clothes, clothing purchased at a shop or store; -- in distinction from that which is home-made. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Store pay, payment for goods or work in articles from a shop or store, instead of money. [U.S.] -- To set store by, to value greatly; to have a high appreciation of. -- To tell no store of, to make no account of; to consider of no importance. 
Accumulated; hoarded. Bacon. 
Collected or accumulated as a reserve supply; as, stored electricity. It is charged with stored virtue. Bagehot. 
One who lays up or forms a store. 
See Story. 
Parental affection; the instinctive affection which animals have for their young. 
Any one of several species of large wading birds of the family Ciconidæ, having long legs and a long, pointed bill. They are found both in the Old World and in America, and belong to Ciconia and several allied genera. The European white stork (Ciconia alba) is the best known. It commonly makes its nests on the top of a building, a chimney, a church spire, or a pillar. The black stork (C. nigra) is native of Asia, Africa, and Europe. Black-necked stork, the East Indian jabiru. -- Hair-crested stork, the smaller adjutant of India (Leptoptilos Javanica). -- Giant stork, the adjutant. -- Marabou stork. See Marabou. -- Saddle-billed stork, the African jabiru. See Jabiru. -- Stork's bill (Bot.), any plant of the genus Pelargonium; -- so called in allusion to the beaklike prolongation of the axis of the receptacle of its flower. See Pelargonium. 
A violent assault on a fortified place; a furious attempt of troops to enter and take a fortified place by scaling the walls, forcing the gates, or the like. 
To assault; to attack, and attempt to take, by scaling walls, forcing gates, breaches, or the like; as, to storm a fortified town. 
Beaten, injured, or impaired by storms. Spenser. 
The Parliament of Norway, chosen by indirect election once in three years, but holding annual sessions. 
A set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor, or the space between two floors. Also, a horizontal division of a building's exterior considered architecturally, which need not correspond exactly with the stories within. [Written also storey.] 
To tell in historical relation; to make the subject of a story; to narrate or describe in story. How worthy he is I will leave to appear hereafter, rather than story him in his own hearing. Shak. It is storied of the brazen colossus in Rhodes, that it was seventy cubits high. Bp. Wilkins. 
See Stoat. 
To be in pain or sorrow. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
Stunned. [Obs.] 
A vessel for holding small beer. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A basin at the entrance of Roman Catholic churches for containing the holy water with which those who enter, dipping their fingers in it, cross themselves; -- called also holy-water stoup. 
A battle or tumult; encounter; combat; disturbance; passion. [Obs.] Fairfax. "That woeful stowre." Spenser. She that helmed was in starke stours [fierce conflicts]. Chaucer. 
Tall; strong; stern. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A strong malt liquor; strong porter. Swift. 
imp. of Stave. 
A hothouse. 
Fodder for cattle, especially straw or coarse hay. Where live nibbling sheep, And flat meads thatched with stover them to keep. Shak. Thresh barley as yet but as need shall require, Fresh threshed for stover thy cattle desire. Tusser. 
One who conceals himself board of a vessel about to leave port, or on a railway train, in order to obtain a free passage. 
A method of working in which the waste is packed into the space formed by excavating the vein. 
See Stour, a. [Obs.] 
See Stour, n. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A strake. 
To act upon, in any way, so as to cause change of form or volume, as forces on a beam to bend it. 
A change of form or dimensions of a solid or liquid mass, produced by a stress. Rankine. 
A variant of Straight. [Obs.] 
Strictly; rigorously. [Obs.] Shak. 
A (comparatively) narrow passageway connecting two large bodies of water; -- often in the plural; as, the strait, or straits, of Gibraltar; the straits of Magellan; the strait, or straits, of Mackinaw. We steered directly through a large outlet which they call a strait, though it be fifteen miles broad. De Foe. 
To put to difficulties. [Obs.] Shak. 
imp. of Strike. Spenser. 
One breadth of planks or plates forming a continuous range on the bottom or sides of a vessel, reaching from the stem to the stern; a streak. 
Pupil of the eye. [Prov. Eng.] 
To spring or recoil with violence. [Prov. Eng.] 
To dash down; to beat. [Prov. Eng.] 
One of the twists, or strings, as of fibers, wires, etc., of which a rope is composed. 
To break a strand of (a rope). 
The shore, especially the beach of a sea, ocean, or large lake; rarely, the margin of a navigable river. Chaucer. Strand birds. (Zoöl.) See Shore birds, under Shore. -- Strand plover (Zoöl.), a black-bellied plover. See Illust. of Plover. -- Strand wolf (Zoöl.), the brown hyena. 
To drive on a strand; hence, to run aground; as, to strand a ship. 
To drift, or be driven, on shore to run aground; as, the ship stranded at high water. 
Strong. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 
The guillemot. [Prov. Eng.] 
A band, plate, or loop of metal for clasping and holding timbers or parts of a machine. (b) (Naut.) 
A military punishment formerly practiced, which consisted in drawing an offender to the top of a beam and letting him fall to the length of the rope, by which means a limb was often dislocated. Shak. 
A brilliant glass, used in the manufacture of artificial paste gems, which consists essentially of a complex borosilicate of lead and potassium. Cf. Glass. 
pl. of Stratum. 
A valley of considerable size, through which a river runs; a valley bottom; -- often used in composition with the name of the river; as, Strath Spey, Strathdon, Strathmore. [Scot.] The long green strath of Napa valley. R. L. Stevenson. 
To spread or scatter. See Strew, and Strow. Chaucer. 
A fragrant edible berry, of a delicious taste and commonly of a red color, the fruit of a plant of the genus Fragaria, of which there are many varieties. Also, the plant bearing the fruit. The common American strawberry is Fragaria virginiana; the European, F. vesca. There are also other less common species. Strawberry bass. (Zoöl.) See Calico bass, under Calico. -- Strawberry blite. (Bot.) See under Blite. -- Strawberry borer (Zoöl.), any one of several species of insects whose larvæ burrow in the crown or roots of the strawberry vine. Especially: (a) The root borer (Anarsia lineatella), a very small dark gray moth whose larvæ burrow both in the larger roots and crown, often doing great damage. (b) The crown borer (Tyloderma fragariæ), a small brown weevil whose larva burrows in the crown and kills the plant. -- Strawberry bush (Bot.), an American shrub (Euonymus Americanus), a kind of spindle tree having crimson pods and the seeds covered with a scarlet aril. -- Strawberry crab (Zoöl.), a small European spider crab (Eurynome aspera); -- so called because the back is covered with pink tubercles. -- Strawberry fish (Zoöl.), the amadavat. -- Strawberry geranium (Bot.), a kind of saxifrage (Saxifraga sarmentosa) having reniform leaves, and producing long runners like those of the strawberry. -- Strawberry leaf. (a) The leaf of the strawberry. (b) The symbol of the rank or estate of a duke, because the ducal coronet is twined with strawberry leaves. "The strawberry leaves on her chariot panels are engraved on her ladyship's heart." Thackeray. -- Strawberry-leaf roller (Zoöl.), any one of several species of moths whose larvæ roll up, and feed upon, the leaves of the strawberry vine; especially, Phoxopteris fragariæ, and Eccopsis permundana. -- Strawberry moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of moth whose larvæ feed on the strawberry vines; as: (a) The smeared dagger (Apatela oblinita), whose large hairy larva is velvety black with two rows of bright yellow spots on each side. (b) A geometrid (Angerona crocataria) which is yellow with dusky spots on the wings. Called also currant moth. -- Strawberry pear (Bot.), the red ovoid fruit of a West Indian plant of the genus Cereus (C. triangularia). It has a sweetish flavor, and is slightly acid, pleasant, and cooling. Also, the plant bearing the fruit. -- Strawberry sawfly (Zoöl.), a small black sawfly (Emphytus maculatus) whose larva eats the leaves of the strawberry vine. -- Strawberry tomato. (Bot.) See Alkekengi. -- Strawberry tree. (Bot.) See Arbutus. -- Strawberry vine (Bot.), the plant which yields the strawberry. -- Strawberry worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any moth which feeds on the strawberry vine. 
Of or pertaining to straw; made of, or resembling, straw. Shak. 
To cause to stray. [Obs.] Shak. 
Having gone astray; strayed; wandering; as, a strayhorse or sheep. Stray line (Naut.), that portion of the log line which is veered from the reel to allow the chip to get clear of the stern eddies before the glass is turned. -- Stray mark (Naut.), the mark indicating the end of the stray line. 
One who strays; a wanderer. 
Straw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To stretch; to extend; hence, to lay out, as a dead body. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A strake. 
Same as Streaked, 1. "The streaky west." Cowper. 
To send forth in a current or stream; to cause to flow; to pour; as, his eyes streamed tears. It may so please that she at length will stream Some dew of grace into my withered heart. Spenser. 
Straw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To stretch; also, to lay out, as a dead body. See Streak. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To trail along; to saunter or be drawn along, carelessly, swaying in a kind of zigzag motion. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 
See Strene. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Originally, a paved way or road; a public highway; now commonly, a thoroughfare in a city or village, bordered by dwellings or business houses. He removed [the body of] Amasa from the street unto the field. Coverdale. At home or through the high street passing. Milton. 
To strain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Drawn. [Obs.] Pyrrhus with his streite sword. Chaucer. 
Close; narrow; strict. [Obs.] See Strait. 
Race; offspring; stock; breed; strain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The force, or combination of forces, which produces a strain; force exerted in any direction or manner between contiguous bodies, or parts of bodies, and taking specific names according to its direction, or mode of action, as thrust or pressure, pull or tension, shear or tangential stress. Rankine. Stress is the mutual action between portions of matter. Clerk Maxwell. 
Having much stress. Rush. 
Anything scattered, as flowers for decoration. [Obs.] Shak. 
p. p. of Strew. 
A fillet between the flutes of columns, pilasters, or the like. Oxf. Gloss. 
An owl. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A bunch of hackled flax prepared for drawing into slivers. Knight. 
Upright, or straight and narrow; -- said of the shape of the plants or their flower clusters. 
A narrow passage between precipitous rocks or banks, which looks as if it might be crossed at a stride. [Prov. Eng.] Howitt. This striding place is called the Strid. Wordsworth. 
The act of stridding; a long step; the space measured by a long step; as, a masculine stride. Pope. God never meant that man should scale the heavens By strides of human wisdom. Cowper. 
Contentious; discordant. The ape was strifeful and ambitious. Spenser. 
To cut off, as a mortar joint, even with the face of the wall, or inward at a slight angle. 
To move; to advance; to proceed; to take a course; as, to strike into the fields. A mouse . . . struck forth sternly [bodily]. Piers Plowman. 
A puddler's stirrer. 
An inside range of ceiling planks, corresponding to the sheer strake on the outside and bolted to it. 
Same as Stringpiece. 
To dismantle; as, to strip a ship of rigging, spars, etc. 
To fail in the thread; to lose the thread, as a bolt, screw, or nut. See Strip, v. t., 8. 
A trough for washing ore. 
A pattern produced by arranging the warp threads in sets of alternating colors, or in sets presenting some other contrast of appearance. 
Having stripes of different colors; streaked. Striped bass. (Zoöl.) See under Bass. -- Striped maple (Bot.), a slender American tree (Acer Pennsylvanicum) with finely striped bark. Called also striped dogwood, and moosewood. -- Striped mullet. (Zoöl.) See under Mullet, 2. -- Striped snake (Zoöl.), the garter snake. -- Striped squirrel (Zoöl.), the chipmunk. 
Striven. Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel. Rom. xv. 20. 
One of the flutings of a column. 
The act or phenomenon of spontaneously dividing transversely, as do certain species of annelids and helminths; transverse fission. See Illust. under Syllidian. 
See Strude. [Obs.] 
imp. of Stride. 
Struck. 
The movement, in either direction, of the piston plunger, piston rod, crosshead, etc., as of a steam engine or a pump, in which these parts have a reciprocating motion; as, the forward stroke of a piston; also, the entire distance passed through, as by a piston, in such a movement; as, the piston is at half stroke. 
To give a finely fluted surface to. 
To wander on foot; to ramble idly or leisurely; to rove. These mothers stroll to beg sustenance for their helpless infants. Swift. 
A wandering on foot; an idle and leisurely walk; a ramble. 
A layer or mass of cellular tissue, especially that part of the thallus of certain fungi which incloses the perithecia. 
Any marine univalve mollusk of the genus Strombus and allied genera. See Conch, and Strombus. 
Strand; beach. [Obs.] Shak. 
Tending to higher prices; rising; as, a strong market. 
imp. of Strike. Dryden. 
A stroke. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To swell out; to strut. [Obs.] Chapman. 
A strap; specifically, same as Strap, 3. 
To draw over, or rub upon, a strop with a view to sharpen; as, to strop a razor. 
A piece of rope spliced into a circular wreath, and put round a block for hanging it. 
A kind of coarse blanket or garment used by the North American Indians. 
To swell; to puff out; to project. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To cause to project or swell out; to enlarge affectedly; to strut. [Obs.] Bacon. 
imp. of Strive. 
Same as Strew. Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks In Vallombrosa. Milton. A manner turbid . . . and strown with blemished. M. Arnold. 
To stroll. [Obs.] 
p. p. of Strow. 
To destroy. [Obs.] Tusser. 
imp. & p. p. of Strike. Struck jury (Law), a special jury, composed of persons having special knowledge or qualifications, selected by striking from the panel of jurors a certain number for each party, leaving the number required by law to try the cause. 
A stock of breeding mares. [Written also strode.] [Obs.] Bailey. 
A bar so placed as to resist weight. 
To play on an instrument of music, or as on an instrument, in an unskillful or noisy way; to thrum; as, to strum a piano. 
Scrofula. 
imp. & p. p. of String. 
Spirituous liquor. [Scot.] Burns. 
A Russian river craft used for transporting freight. 
In general, any piece of a frame which resists thrust or pressure in the direction of its own length. See Brace, and Illust. of Frame, and Roof. 
To hold apart. Cf. Strut, n., 3. 
Protuberant. [Obs.] Holland. 
The quality or state of being stubbed. 
To overlay or decorate with stucco, or fine plaster. 
imp. & p. p. of Stick. 
A thrust. [Obs.] Shak. 
A collection of breeding horses and mares, or the place where they are kept; also, a number of horses kept for a racing, riding, etc. In the studs of Ireland, where care is taken, we see horses bred of excellent shape, vigor, and size. Sir W. Temple. He had the finest stud in England, and his delight was to win plates from Tories. Macaulay. 
An upright scanting, esp. one of the small uprights in the framing for lath and plaster partitions, and furring, and upon which the laths are nailed. 
A genealogical register of a particular breed or stud of horses, esp. thoroughbreds. 
The working room of an artist. 
A representation or rendering of any object or scene intended, not for exhibition as an original work of art, but for the information, instruction, or assistance of the maker; as, a study of heads or of hands for a figure picture. 
A jet of steam issuing from a fissure in the earth. 
A melted mass of turpentine, tallow, etc., with which the masts, sides, and bottom of a ship are smeared for lubrication. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 
To fill with a seasoning composition of bread, meat, condiments, etc.; as, to stuff a turkey. 
To feed gluttonously; to cram. Taught harmless man to cram and stuff. Swift. 
Stucco. [Obs.] 
A framework of timber covered with boards to support rubbish; also, a framework of boards to protect miners from falling stones. [Prov. Eng.] 
A shaft or gallery to drain a mine. [Local, Eng.] Bailey. 
A short, stout post used for any purpose, a to mark a boundary. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Foolish; silly. [Obs.] Testament of Love. 
To renew, as wine, by mixing must with it and raising a new fermentation. We stum our wines to renew their spirits. Floyer. 
The legs; as, to stir one's stumps. [Slang] 
To walk clumsily, as if on stumps. To stump up, to pay cash. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
The condition of being stunned. 
imp. & p. p. of Sting. 
imp. & p. p. of Stink. 
To hinder from growing to the natural size; to prevent the growth of; to stint, to dwarf; as, to stunt a child; to stunt a plant. When, by a cold penury, I blast the abilities of a nation, and stunt the growth of its active energies, the ill or may do is beyond all calculation. Burke. 
Dwarfed. -- Stunt"ed*ness, n. 
A mound or monument commemorative of Buddha. 
See 1st Stupe. 
Cloth or flax dipped in warm water or medicaments and applied to a hurt or sore. 
To foment with a stupe. Wiseman. 
A stupid person. [Obs.] 
See Stupefy. 
Composed of, or having, tufted or matted filaments like tow; stupeous. 
To disturb. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A disease in sheep and cattle, marked by great nervousness, or by dullness and stupor. 
See Stirk. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To vex; to annoy; to startle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A bargain in tribute mining by which the tributor profits. Raymond. 
To stutter. [Obs.] Skelton. 
To shut up in, or as in, a sty. Shak. 
To soar; to ascend; to mount. See Stirrup. [Obs.] With bolder wing shall dare aloft to sty, To the last praises of this Faery Queene. Spenser. 
An inflamed swelling or boil on the edge of the eyelid. [Written also stye.] 
See Sty, a boil. [R.] De quincey. 
An anglo-Saxon copper coin of the lowest value, being worth half a farthing. S. M. Leake. 
See Sty, a boil. 
See Stilar. 
The pin, or gnomon, of a dial, the shadow of which indicates the hour. See Gnomon. (f) Etym: [Probably fr. Gr. (Bot.) 
To entitle; to term, name, or call; to denominate. "Styled great conquerors." Milton. How well his worth and brave adventures styled. Dryden. 
A small poniard; a stiletto. 
An instrument for writing. See Style, n., 1. That needle-shaped part at the tip of the playing arm of phonograph which sits in the groove of a phonograph record while it is turning, to detect the undulations in the phonograph groove and convert them into vibrations which are transmitted to a system (since 1920 electronic) which converts the signal into sound; also called needle. The stylus is frequently composed of metal or diamond. 3. The needle-like device used to cut the grooves which record the sound on the original disc during recording of a phonograph record. 4. (Computers) 
A genus of shrubs and trees, mostly American or Asiatic, abounding in resinous and aromatic substances. Styrax officinalis yields storax, and S. Benzoin yields benzoin. 
See Styrolene. 
A hypothetical radical found in certain derivatives of styrolene and cinnamic acid; -- called also cinnyl, or cinnamyl. 
Choke damp. 
See Stithy. 
The principal river of the lower world, which had to be crossed in passing to the regions of the dead. 
Capable of being sued; subject by law to be called to answer in court. Story. 
To persuade. [Obs.] 
To assuage. [Obs.] Dryden. 
Spread equally over the surface; uniform; even. [Written also suent.] [Local, U.S. & Prov. Eng.] -- Su"ant*ly, adv. [Local, U.S. & Prov. Eng.] 
Sweet; pleasant; delightful; gracious or agreeable in manner; bland. -- Suave"ly, adv. 
A subordinate; a subaltern. [Colloq.] 
To reduce; to subdue. [Obs.] Bacon. 
A province; a government, as of a viceroy; also, a subahdar. [India] 
To aid secretly; to assist in a private manner, or indirectly. [R.] Daniel. 
To understand or supply in an ellipsis. [R.] 
Subdual. [Obs.] Shak. 
In haste; quickly; rapidly. 
To underlet; to lease, as when a lessee leases to another person. 
One who submits. Whitlock. 
To subjoin; to subnect. [Obs.] Holland. 
To procure or cause to take a false oath amounting to perjury, such oath being actually taken. Sir W. O. Russell. 
The quality or state of being subtle; subtlety. 
In a subtle manner; slyly; artfully; cunningly. Thou seest how subtly to detain thee I devise. Milton. 
Of or pertaining to suburbs; inhabiting, or being in, the suburbs of a city. "Suburban taverns." Longfellow. Suburban villas, highway-side retreats, . . . Delight the citizen. Cowper. 
An underground way or gallery; especially, a passage under a street, in which water mains, gas mains, telegraph wires, etc., are conducted. 
tiono run to, or run to support; hence, to help or relieve when in difficulty, want, or distress; to assist and deliver from suffering; to relieve; as, to succor a besieged city. [Written also succour.] He is able to succor them that are tempted. Heb. ii. 18. 
Capable of being succored or assisted; admitting of relief. 
The expressed juice of a plant, for medicinal use. Succus entericus (. Etym: [NL., literally, juice of the intestines.] (Physiol.) A fluid secreted in small by certain glands (probably the glands of Lieberkühn) of the small intestines. Its exact action is somewhat doubtful. 
Having dorsal vertebræ with long and divided transverse processes; -- applied to certain reptiles. 
A kind of seawan. See Note under Seawan. 
The jurisdiction of a mill, or that extent of ground astricted to it, the tenants of which are bound to bring their grain thither to be ground. 
A shoot from the roots or lower part of the stem of a plant; -- so called, perhaps, from diverting nourishment from the body of the plant. 
To strip off the suckers or shoots from; to deprive of suckers; as, to sucker maize. 
To form suckers; as, corn suckers abundantly. 
A sweetmeat; a dainty morsel. Jer. Taylor. 
A teat. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 
To give suck to; to nurse at the breast. Addison. The breasts of Hecuba When she did suckle Hector, looked not lovelier. Shak. They are not weak, suckled by Wisdom. Landor. 
To nurse; to suck. [R.] 
A silver coin of Ecuador, worth 68 cents. 
A napkin or handkerchief. [Obs. or R.] Wyclif. R. Browning. 
A tangled mass of floating vegetal matter obstructing navigation. [Central Africa] 
Suddenly; unexpectedly. [R.] Herbs of every leaf that sudden flowered. Milton. 
An unexpected occurrence; a surprise. All of a sudden, On a sudden, Of a sudden, sooner than was expected; without the usual preparation; suddenly. How art thou lost! how on a sudden lost! Milton. He withdrew his opposition all of a sudden. Thackeray. 
The lowest of the four great castes among the Hindoos. See Caste. [Written also Soorah, Soodra, and Sooder.] 
Water impregnated with soap, esp. when worked up into bubbles and froth. In the suds, in turmoil or difficulty. [Colloq.] Beau. & Fl. 
To clean, as the beak; -- said of a hawk. 
To prosecute; to make legal claim; to seek (for something) in law; as, to sue for damages. 
Swedish glove leather, --usually made from lambskins tanned with willow bark. Also used adjectively; as, suède gloves. 
Uniformly or evenly distributed or spread; even; smooth. See Suant. Thoreau. 
One who sues; a suitor. 
The fat and fatty tissues of an animal, especially the harder fat about the kidneys and loins in beef and mutton, which, when melted and freed from the membranes, forms tallow. 
Consisting of, or resembling, suet; as, a suety substance. 
The bearing of pain, inconvenience, or loss; pain endured; distress, loss, or injury incurred; as, sufferings by pain or sorrow; sufferings by want or by wrongs. "Souls in sufferings tried." Keble. 
A subscript mark, number, or letter. See Subscript, a. 
To add or annex to the end, as a letter or syllable to a word; to append. 
A title or surname of the king of Persia. 
One of a certain order of religious men in Persia. [Written also sofi.] 
A refined mysticism among certain classes of Mohammedans, particularly in Persia, who hold to a kind of pantheism and practice extreme asceticism in their lives. [Written also sofism.] 
A kind of worm or larva. Walton. 
In making maple sugar, to complete the process of boiling down the sirup till it is thick enough to crystallize; to approach or reach the state of granulation; -- with the preposition off. [Local, U.S.] 
Sweetened. "The sugared liquor." Spenser. 
Of or pertaining to sucking. [R.] Paley. 
To defame. [Obs.] Abp. Parker. 
A mixture of oleomargarine with lard or other fatty ingredients. It is used as a substitute for butter. See Butterine. 
The process of soaking through anything. [Obs.] Bacon. 
A peculiar substance obtained from the wool of sheep, consisting largely of potash mixed with fatty and earthy matters. It is used as a source of potash and also for the manufacture of gas. 
One who seeks for things which gratify merely himself; a selfish person; a selfist. [R.] Whitlock. 
The attempt to gain an end by legal process; an action or process for the recovery of a right or claim; legal application to a court for justice; prosecution of right before any tribunal; as, a civil suit; a criminal suit; a suit in chancery. I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino. Shak. In England the several suits, or remedial instruments of justice, are distinguished into three kinds -- actions personal, real, and mixed. Blackstone. 
To agree; to accord; to be fitted; to correspond; -- usually followed by with or to. The place itself was suiting to his care. Dryden. Give me not an office That suits with me so ill. Addison. 
One of the old musical forms, before the time of the more compact sonata, consisting of a string or series of pieces all in the same key, mostly in various dance rhythms, with sometimes an elaborate prelude. Some composers of the present day affect the suite form. 
A female supplicant. Rowe. 
Indian wheat, granulated but not pulverized; a kind of semolina. [Written also soojee.] 
A genus of sea birds including the booby and the common gannet. 
A furrow; a groove; a fissure. 
A furrow. [Obs.] 
To be silently sullen; to be morose or obstinate. T. Hook. 
One who sulks. 
The condition of being sulky; a sulky mood or humor; as, to be in the sulks. 
Moodly silent; sullen; sour; obstinate; morose; splenetic. 
A light two-wheeled carriage for a single person. 
A plow. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
Sullen feelings or manners; sulks; moroseness; as, to have the sullens. [Obs.] Shak. 
To make sullen or sluggish. [Obs.] Sullens the whole body with . . . laziness. Feltham. 
To soil; to dirty; to spot; to tarnish; to stain; to darken; -- used literally and figuratively; as, to sully a sword; to sully a person's reputation. Statues sullied yet with sacrilegious smoke. Roscommon. No spots to sully the brightness of this solemnity. Atterbury. 
To become soiled or tarnished. Silvering will sully and canker more than gilding. Bacon. 
Soil; tarnish; stain. A noble and triumphant merit breaks through little spots and sullies in his reputation. Spectator. 
A ruler, or sovereign, of a Mohammedan state; specifically, the ruler of the Turks; the Padishah, or Grand Seignior; -- officially so called. Sultan flower. (Bot.) See Sweet sultan, under Sweet. 
A member of the most prominent tribe of the Moro tribes, occupying the Sulu Archipelago; also, their language. 
A problem to be solved, or an example to be wrought out. Macaulay. A sum in arithmetic wherein a flaw discovered at a particular point is ipso facto fatal to the whole. Gladstone. A large sheet of paper . . . covered with long sums. Dickens. Algebraic sum, as distinguished from arithmetical sum, the aggregate of two or more numbers or quantities taken with regard to their signs, as + or -, according to the rules of addition in algebra; thus, the algebraic sum of -2, 8, and -1 is 5. -- In sum, in short; in brief. [Obs.] "In sum, the gospel . . . prescribes every virtue to our conduct, and forbids every sin." Rogers. 
To have (the feathers) full grown; to furnish with complete, or full-grown, plumage. But feathered soon and fledge They summed their pens [wings]. Milton. Summing up, a compendium or abridgment; a recapitulation; a résumé; a summary. 
The musky root of an Asiatic umbelliferous plant, Ferula Sumbul. It is used in medicine as a stimulant. [Written also sumbal.] -- Sum*bul"ic, a. 
One who sums; one who casts up an account. 
A large stone or beam placed horizontally on columns, piers, posts, or the like, serving for various uses. Specifically: (a) The lintel of a door or window. (b) The commencement of a cross vault. (c) A central floor timber, as a girder, or a piece reaching from a wall to a girder. Called also summertree. 
The season of the year in which the sun shines most directly upon any region; the warmest period of the year. 
To pass the summer; to spend the warm season; as, to summer in Switzerland. The fowls shall summer upon them. Isa. xviii. 6. 
To keep or carry through the summer; to feed during the summer; as, to summer stock. 
The most elevated part of a bivalve shell, or the part in which the hinge is situated. Summit level, the highest level of a canal, a railroad, or the like, in surmounting an ascent. 
To call upon to surrender, as a fort. 
A summoner. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
See Simoom. 
A round pit of stone, lined with clay, for receiving the metal on its first fusion. Ray. 
A dunce; a blockhead. [Scot.] 
See Sunn. 
To expose to the sun's rays; to warm or dry in the sun; as, to sun cloth; to sun grain. Then to sun thyself in open air. Dryden. 
A rainbow; an iris. Byron. 
A yellow flowered evening primrose (Taraxia, syn. Onothera, ovata) native of California. 
The first day of the week, -- consecrated among Christians to rest from secular employments, and to religious worship; the Christian Sabbath; the Lord's Day. Advent Sunday, Low Sunday, Passion Sunday, etc. See under Advent, Low, etc. 
Belonging to the Christian Sabbath. Sunday letter. See Dominical letter, under Dominical. -- Sunday school. See under School. 
To disunite in almost any manner, either by rending, cutting, or breaking; to part; to put or keep apart; to separate; to divide; to sever; as, to sunder a rope; to sunder a limb; to sunder friends. It is sundered from the main land by a sandy plain. Carew. 
To part; to separate. [R.] Shak. 
A separation into parts; a division or severance. In sunder, into parts. "He breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder." Ps. xlvi. 9. 
To expose to the sun and wind. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Any plant of the genus Drosera, low bog plants whose leaves are beset with pediceled glands which secrete a viscid fluid that glitters like dewdrops and attracts and detains insects. After an insect is caught, the glands curve inward like tentacles and the leaf digests it. Called also lustwort. 
A luminous spot occasionally seen a few degrees from the sun, supposed to be formed by the intersection of two or more halos, or in a manner similar to that of halos. 
One who deals in sundries, or a variety of articles. 
imp. & p. p. of Sing. 
imp. & p. p. of Sink. Sunk fence, a ditch with a retaining wall, used to divide lands without defacing a landscape; a ha-ha. 
Lying on the bottom of a river or other water; sunk. 
Lighted by the sun. 
An East Indian leguminous plant (Crotalaria juncea) and its fiber, which is also called sunn hemp. [Written also sun.] 
A collection of traditions received by the orthodox Mohammedans as of equal authority with the Koran. 
A charter or warrant; also, a deed of gift. [India] 
See Sunfish (b). 
Sunrise. [Local, U.S.] Such a horse as that might get over a good deal of ground atwixt sunup and sundown. Cooper. 
To take into the mouth with the lips, as a liquid; to take or drink by a little at a time; to sip. There I'll sup Balm and nectar in my cup. Crashaw. 
A small mouthful, as of liquor or broth; a little taken with the lips; a sip. Tom Thumb had got a little sup. Drayton. 
To eat the evening meal; to take supper. I do entreat that we may sup together. 
To treat with supper. [Obs.] Sup them well and look unto them all. Shak. 
Boiled Indian meal; hasty pudding; mush. [Written also sepawn, sepon, and suppawn.] [Local, U.S.] 
A super. [Theatrical Cant] 
A contraction of Supernumerary, in sense 2. [Theatrical Cant] 
To make (a person) haughty. [Obs. & R.] Feltham. 
A verbal noun; or (according to C.F.Becker), a case of the infinitive mood ending in -um and -u, that in -um being sometimes called the former supine, and that in -u the latter supine. 
A meal taken at the close of the day; the evening meal. 
To take supper; to sup. [R.] 
To supply with supper. [R.] "Kester was suppering the horses." Mrs. Gaskell. 
To become soft and pliant. The stones . . . Suppled into softness as they fell. Dryden. 
Serving to contain, deliver, or regulate a supply of anything; as, a supply tank or valve. Supply system (Zoöl.), the system of tubes and canals in sponges by means of which food and water are absorbed. See Illust. of Spongiæ. 
Over; above; before; also, beyond; besides; -- much used as a prefix. 
One of the sections or chapters of the Koran, which are one hundred and fourteen in number. 
A soft twilled silk fabric much used for women's dresses; -- called also surah silk. 
Of or pertaining to the calf of the leg; as, the sural arteries. 
To set edgewise, as a stone; that is, to set it in a position different from that which it had in the quarry. It . . . has something of a grain parallel with the horizon, and therefore should not be surbedded. Gilbert White. 
Same as Surbate. [Obs.] 
Surbated; bruised. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A little shoot; a twig; a sucker. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
Involving surds; not capable of being expressed in rational numbers; radical; irrational; as, a surd expression or quantity; a surd number. 
A surd element of speech. See Surd, a., 4. 
Same as Surd, a., 3. 
In a sure manner; safely; certainly. "Great, sure, shall be thy meed." Spenser. 'T is pleasant, sure, to see one's name in print. Byron. 
A making sure; surety. [Obs.] Every surement and every bond. Chaucer. 
One who is bound with and for another who is primarily liable, and who is called the principal; one who engages to answer for another's appearance in court, or for his payment of a debt, or for performance of some act; a bondsman; a bail. He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it. Prov. xi. 15. 
To act as surety for. [Obs.] Shak. 
The swell of the sea which breaks upon the shore, esp. upon a sloping beach. Surf bird (Zoöl.), a ploverlike bird of the genus Aphriza, allied to the turnstone. -- Surf clam (Zoöl.), a large clam living on the open coast, especially Mactra, or Spisula, solidissima. See Mactra. -- Surf duck (Zoöl.), any one of several species of sea ducks of the genus Oidemia, especially O. percpicillata; -- called also surf scoter. See the Note under Scoter. -- Surf fish (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of California embiotocoid fishes. See Embiotocoid. -- Surf smelt. (Zoöl.) See Smelt. -- Surf whiting. (Zoöl.) See under Whiting. 
The bottom of a drain. [Prov. Eng.] 
The surf duck. [U. S.] 
Consisting of, abounding in, or resembling, surf; as, a surfy shore. Scarce had they cleared the surfy waves That foam around those frightful caves. Moore. 
To slip along a windlass. 
To let go or slacken suddenly, as a rope; as, to surge a hawser or messenger; also, to slacken the rope about (a capstan). 
Rising in surges or billows; full of surges; resembling surges in motion or appearance; swelling. "Over the surgy main." Pope. 
A mark made on the molds of a ship, when building, to show where the angles of the timbers are to be placed. [Written also sirmark.] 
A four-wheeled pleasure carriage, (commonly two-seated) somewhat like a phaeton, but having a straight bottom. 
An additional or extra tax. 
To impose an additional tax on. 
Survey. [R.] Barrow. 
A ground squirrel (Spermophilus citillus) of Europe and Asia. It has large cheek pouches. [Written also souslik.] 
See Soosoo. 
Done by stitching. [R.] Boswell. 
A person who follows an army, and sells to the troops provisions, liquors, and the like. 
A kind of sirup made by the Indians of Arizona from the fruit of some cactaceous plant (probably the Cereus giganteus). 
A body of Hindoo literature containing aphorisms on grammar, meter, law, and philosophy, and forming a connecting link between the Vedic and later Sanscrit literature. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 
The practice of self-immolation of widows in Hindostan. 
The weight when the tare has been deducted, and tret is yet to be allowed. M 
To act as sutler; to supply provisions and other articles to troops. 
The line of union, or seam, in an immovable articulation, like those between the bones of the skull; also, such an articulation itself; synarthrosis. See Harmonic suture, under Harmonic. 
So. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To clean with a mop or swab; to wipe when very wet, as after washing; as, to swab the desk of a ship. [Spelt also swob.] 
An epaulet. [Sailor's Slang] Marryat. 
A thin layer of refuse at the bottom of a seam. Raymond. 
Having a prominent, overhanging belly. Shak. 
See Assuage. [Obs.] 
A tool, variously shaped or grooved on the end or face, used by blacksmiths and other workers in metals, for shaping their work, whether sheet metal or forging, by holding the swage upon the work, or the work upon the swage, and striking with a sledge. Swage block, a perforated block of iron, having grooved sides and adapted for use in heading bolts and swaging objects of large size. 
To shape by means of a swage; to fashion, as a piece of iron, by forcing it into a groove or mold having the required shape. 
Inclined to swag; sinking, hanging, or leaning by its weight. Sir T. Browne. 
Pertaining to, or resembling, a swain; rustic; ignorant. "An ungentle and swainish beast." Milton. -- Swain"ish*ness, n. Emerson. 
To walk proudly; to sweep along. [Prov. Eng.] Todd. 
Swelled. Chaucer. 
A valley or low place; a tract of low, and usually wet, land; a moor; a fen. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 
To melt and waste away; to singe. See Sweal, v. 
A gutter in a candle. [Prov. Eng.] 
imp. of Swim. 
Wet, spongy land; soft, low ground saturated with water, but not usually covered with it; marshy ground away from the seashore. Gray swamps and pools, waste places of the hern. Tennyson. A swamp differs from a bog and a marsh in producing trees and shrubs, while the latter produce only herbage, plants, and mosses. Farming Encyc. (E. Edwards, Words). Swamp blackbird. (Zoöl.) See Redwing (b). -- Swamp cabbage (Bot.), skunk cabbage. -- Swamp deer (Zoöl.), an Asiatic deer (Rucervus Duvaucelli) of India. -- Swamp hen. (Zoöl.) (a) An Australian azure-breasted bird (Porphyrio bellus); -- called also goollema. (b) An Australian water crake, or rail (Porzana Tabuensis); -- called also little swamp hen. (c) The European purple gallinule. -- Swamp honeysuckle (Bot.), an American shrub (Azalea, or Rhododendron, viscosa) growing in swampy places, with fragrant flowers of a white color, or white tinged with rose; -- called also swamp pink. -- Swamp hook, a hook and chain used by lumbermen in handling logs. Cf. Cant hook. -- Swamp itch. (Med.) See Prairie itch, under Prairie. -- Swamp laurel (Bot.), a shrub (Kalmia glauca) having small leaves with the lower surface glaucous. -- Swamp maple (Bot.), red maple. See Maple. -- Swamp oak (Bot.), a name given to several kinds of oak which grow in swampy places, as swamp Spanish oak (Quercus palustris), swamp white oak (Q. bicolor), swamp post oak (Q. lyrata). -- Swamp ore (Min.), big ore; limonite. -- Swamp partridge (Zoöl.), any one of several Australian game birds of the genera Synoicus and Excalfatoria, allied to the European partridges. -- Swamp robin (Zoöl.), the chewink. -- Swamp sassafras (Bot.), a small North American tree of the genus Magnolia (M. glauca) with aromatic leaves and fragrant creamy-white blossoms; -- called also sweet bay. -- Swamp sparrow (Zoöl.), a common North American sparrow (Melospiza Georgiana, or M. palustris), closely resembling the song sparrow. It lives in low, swampy places. -- Swamp willow. (Bot.) See Pussy willow, under Pussy. 
To cause (a boat) to become filled with water; to capsize or sink by whelming with water. 
Consisting of swamp; like a swamp; low, wet, and spongy; as, swampy land. 
Any one of numerous species of large aquatic birds belonging to Cygnus, Olor, and allied genera of the subfamily Cygninæ. They have a large and strong beak and a long neck, and are noted for their graceful movements when swimming. Most of the northern species are white. In literature the swan was fabled to sing a melodious song, especially at the time of its death. 
imp. of Swing. 
A swamp. [Prov. Eng.] 
Swanlike; as, a swanny glossiness of the neck. Richardson. 
Hastily. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Sweep, n., 12. 
To produce sward upon; to cover, or be covered, with sward. Mortimer. 
Covered with sward or grass. 
imp. of Swear. [Obs. or Poetic] Cophetua sware a royal oath. Tennyson. 
To grow languid; to faint. [Scot.] "To swarf for very hunger." Sir W. Scott. 
The grit worn away from grindstones in grinding cutlery wet. [Prov. Eng.] 
To climb a tree, pole, or the like, by embracing it with the arms and legs alternately. See Shin. [Colloq.] At the top was placed a piece of money, as a prize for those who could swarm up and seize it. W. Coxe. 
To crowd or throng. Fanshawe. 
Sward. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
To make swart or tawny; as, to swart a living part. Sir T. Browne. 
Swart; swarthy. "A swarth complexion." Chapman. 
An apparition of a person about to die; a wraith. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
Sward; short grass. Grassy swarth, close cropped by nibbling sheep. Cowper. 
See Swath. 
Swarthy; tawny. [Obs.] Burton. 
An oval figure, whose moldings are oblique to the axis of the work. Moxon. Swash plate (Mach.), a revolving circular plate, set obliquely on its shaft, and acting as a cam to give a reciprocating motion to a rod in a direction parallel to the shaft. 
Soft, like fruit too ripe; swashy. [Prov. Eng.] Pegge. 
A bully or braggadocio; a swaggering, boastful fellow; a swaggerer. Milton. 
Soft, like fruit that is too ripe; quashy; swash. [Prov. Eng.] 
imp. of Sweat. Chaucer. 
imp. of Sweat. Thomson. 
To bind with a swathe, band, bandage, or rollers. Their children are never swathed or bound about with any thing when they are first born. Abp. Abbot. 
A bandage; a band; a swath. Wrapped me in above an hundred yards of swathe. Addison. Milk and a swathe, at first, his whole demand. Young. The solemn glory of the afternoon, with its long swathes of light between the far off rows of limes. G. Eliot. 
imp. of Sweat. Chaucer. 
To hoist; as, to sway up the yards. 
Having the back hollow or sagged, whether naturally or as the result of injury or weakness; -- said of horses and other animals. 
Bent down, and hollow in the back; sway-backed; -- said of a horse. Shak. 
To melt and run down, as the tallow of a candle; to waste away without feeding the flame. [Written also swale.] Sir W. Scott. 
To singe; to scorch; to swale; as, to sweal a pig by singeing off the hair. 
To give evidence on oath; as, to swear to the truth of a statement; he swore against the prisoner. 
To put to an oath; to cause to take an oath; to administer an oath to; -- ofetn followed by in or into; as, to swear witnesses; to swear a jury; to swear in an officer; he was sworn into office. 
The fluid which is excreted from the skin of an animal; the fluid secreted by the sudoriferous glands; a transparent, colorless, acid liquid with a peculiar odor, containing some fatty acids and mineral matter; perspiration. See Perspiration. In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread. Gen. iii. 19. 
A Swedish turnip. See under Turnip. 
An atrophy of the muscles of the shoulder in horses; also, atrophy of any muscle in horses. [Written also swinney.] 
To draw or drag something over; as, to sweep the bottom of a river with a net. 
A movable templet for making molds, in loam molding. 
Moving with a sweeping motion. The branches bend before their sweepy away. Dryden. 
Sweetly. Shak. 
To sweeten. [Obs.] Udall. 
Sway; movement. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To augment gradually in force or loudness, as the sound of a note. 
A gradual increase and decrease of the volume of sound; the crescendo and diminuendo combined; -- generally indicated by the sign. 
Having the characteristics of a person of rank and importance; showy; dandified; distinguished; as, a swell person; a swell neighborhood. [Slang] Swell mob. See under Mob. [Slang] 
imp. of Swell. 
To overpower, as with heat; to cause to faint; to swelter. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Bp. Hall. 
To swallow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. & p. p. of Sweep. 
See Sward, n. & v. [Obs.] 
Sword. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To turn aside. Gauden. 
A vision seen in sleep; a dream. [Obs.] Wycliff (Acts ii. 17). I defy both sweven and dream. Chaucer. 
Such. [Obs.] Swich things as that I know I will declare. Chaucer. 
Swiftly. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak. Ply swift and strong the oar. Southey. 
Any one of numerous species of small, long-winged, insectivorous birds of the family Micropodidæ. In form and habits the swifts resemble swallows, but they are destitute of complex vocal muscles and are not singing birds, but belong to a widely different group allied to the humming birds. 
A tackle with ropes which are not parallel. 
To pull upon (a tackle) by throwing the weight of the body upon the fall between the block and a cleat. 
To drink in great draughts; to swallow greedily. Well-dressed people, of both sexes, . . . devouring sliced beef, and swilling pork, and punch, and cider. Smollett. 
To drink greedily or swinishly; to drink to excess. South. 
One who swills. 
To be dizzy; to have an unsteady or reeling sensation; as, the head swims. 
See Swink. 
Any animal of the hog kind, especially one of the domestical species. Swine secrete a large amount of subcutaneous fat, which, when extracted, is known as lard. The male is specifically called boar, the female, sow, and the young, pig. See Hog. "A great herd of swine." Mark v. 11. Swine grass (Bot.), knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare); -- so called because eaten by swine. -- Swine oat (Bot.), a kind of oat sometimes grown for swine. -- Swine's cress (Bot.), a species of cress of the genus Senebiera (S. Coronopus). -- Swine's head, a dolt; a blockhead. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- Swine thistle (Bot.), the sow thistle. 
To turn round by action of wind or tide when at anchor; as, a ship swings with the tide. 
To admit or turn (anything) for the purpose of shaping it; -- said of a lathe; as, the lathe can swing a pulley of 12 inches diameter. To swing a door, gate, etc. (Carp.), to put it on hinges so that it can swing or turn. 
The European swift. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Singe. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A swashbuckler; a bully; a roiserer. [Obs.] Shak. 
To labor; to toil; to salve. [Obs. or Archaic] Or swink with his hands and labor. Chaucer. For which men swink and sweat incessantly. Spenser. The swinking crowd at every stroke pant "Ho." Sir Samuel Freguson. 
Labor; toil; drudgery. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
Poor, weak beer; small beer. [Slang, Eng.] [Written also swypes.] Craig. 
That part of a flail which strikes the grain in thrashing; a swingel. [Written also swipel, and swipple.] 
To whirl, or cause to whirl, as in an eddy. "The river swirled along." C. Kingsley. 
A whirling motion; an eddy, as of water; a whirl. "The silent swirl of bats." Mrs. Browning. 
To dash; to swash. 
Light driven spray. [Eng.] 
A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Switzer; the people of Switzerland. 
Of or pertaining to Switzerland, or the people of Switzerland. 
A movable part of a rail; or of opposite rails, for transferring cars from one track to another. 
To shift to another circuit. 
To walk with a jerk. [Prov. Eng.] 
Instantly; quickly; speedily; rapidly. [Obs.] That thou doest, do thou swithe. Wyclif (John xiii. 27). 
To copulate with (a woman). [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A piece, as a ring or hook, attached to another piece by a pin, in such a manner as to permit rotation about the pin as an axis. 
To swing or turn, as on a pin or pivot. 
See Swab. 
Contraction of Swollen, p. p. Milton. 
imp. of Swim. Shak. 
To sink into a fainting fit, in which there is an apparent suspension of the vital functions and mental powers; to faint; -- often with away. The sucklings swoon in the streets of the city. Lam. ii. 11. The most in years . . . swooned first away for pain. Dryden. He seemed ready to swoon away in the surprise of joy. Tatler. 
A fainting fit; syncope. 
A falling on and seizing, as the prey of a rapacious bird; the act of swooping. The eagle fell, . . . and carried away a whole litter of cubs at a swoop. L'Estrange. 
Same as Swap. Dryden. 
One of the end bars by which the lay of a hand loom is suspended. Sword arm, the right arm. -- Sword bayonet, a bayonet shaped somewhat like a sword, and which can be used as a sword. -- Sword bearer, one who carries his master's sword; an officer in London who carries a sword before the lord mayor when he goes abroad. -- Sword belt, a belt by which a sword is suspended, and borne at the side. -- Sword blade, the blade, or cutting part, of a sword. -- Sword cane, a cane which conceals the blade of a sword or dagger, as in a sheath. -- Sword dance. (a) A dance in which swords are brandished and clashed together by the male dancers. Sir W. Scott. (b) A dance performed over swords laid on the ground, but without touching them. -- Sword fight, fencing; a combat or trial of skill with swords; swordplay. -- Sword grass. (Bot.) See Gladen. -- Sword knot, a ribbon tied to the hilt of a sword. -- Sword law, government by the sword, or by force; violence. Milton. -- Sword lily. (Bot.) See Gladiolus. -- Sword mat (Naut.), a mat closely woven of yarns; -- so called from a wooden implement used in its manufacture. -- Sword shrimp (Zoöl.), a European shrimp (Pasiphæa sivado) having a very thin, compressed body. -- Sword stick, a sword cane. -- To measure swords with one. See under Measure, v. t. -- To put to the sword. See under Put. 
imp. of Swear. 
p. p. of Swear. Sworn brothers, originally, companions in arms who took an oath to share together good and bad fortune; hence, faithful friends. -- Sworn enemies, determined or irreconcilable enemies. -- Sworn friends, close friends. 
See Swoon, v. & n. [Prov. Eng. or Archaic] Shak. Dryden. The landlord stirred As one awaking from a swound. Longfellow. 
Swoon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. & p. p. of Swim. 
imp. & p. p. of Swing. 
Quickly. See Swithe. [Obs.] 
See Sib. [Obs. or Scot.] 
A groom. [India] 
Silver, pounded into ingots of the shape of a shoe, and used as currency. The most common weight is about one pound troy. [China] McElrath. 
A nodule of flint, or a pebble, which resembles a fig. [Obs.] 
The missel thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 
Saw. Chaucer. 
See Sike. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Sicker. [Obs.] 
A young herring (Clupea harengus). [Also written sile.] But our folk call them syle, and nought but syle, And when they're grown, why then we call them herring. J. Ingelow. 
Any one of several species of very brilliant South American humming birds, having a very long and deeply-forked tail; as, the blue-tailed sylph (Cynanthus cyanurus). 
Same as Silva. 
A fabled deity of the wood; a satyr; a faun; sometimes, a rustic. Her private orchards, walled on every side, To lawless sylvans all access denied. Pope. 
A liquid hydrocarbon obtained together with furfuran (tetrol) by the distillation of pine wood; -- called also methyl tetrol, or methyl furfuran. 
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, pine or its products; specifically, designating an acid called also abeitic acid, which is the chief ingredient of common resin (obtained from Pinus sylvestris, and other species). 
See Cimbal. [Obs.] 
Any character used to represent a quantity, an operation, a relation, or an abbreviation. 
To symbolize. [R.] Tennyson. 
An agent of a corporation, or of any body of men engaged in a business enterprise; an advocate or patron; an assignee. 
Since; seeing. [Scot.] 
The interjunction, or joining, of words in uttering the clauses of sentences. 
An ecclesiastic council or meeting to consult on church matters. 
Syntax. [R.] B. Jonson. 
See Syphon. 
See Siren. [R.] 
Of or pertaining to Syria, or its language; as, the Syriac version of the Pentateuch. -- n. 
Of or pertaining to Syria; Syriac. -- n. 
A wind instrument made of reeds tied together; -- called also pandean pipes. 
A long dress, trailing on the floor, worn by tragic actors in Greek and Roman theaters. 
A quicksand; a bog. [R.] Young. 
Of or pertaining to a syrt; resembling syrt, or quicksand. [R.] Ed. Rev. 
A quicksand. Quenched in a boggy syrtis, neither sea Nor good dry land. Milton. 
The collection of staves which form a full score. See Score, n. 
Scythe. [Obs. or R.] 
The point of an orbit, as of the moon or a planet, at which it is in conjunction or opposition; -- commonly used in the plural. 
A heap. See Tas. [Obs.]  Chaucer. 
Tobacco. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A sort of tunic or mantle formerly worn for protection from the weather. When worn over the armor it was commonly emblazoned with the arms of the wearer, and from this the name was given to the garment adopted for heralds. [Spelt also taberd.] 
To cause to waste gradually, to emaciate. [R.]  Harvey. 
Same as Tabor.  Nahum ii. 7. 
See Tabard. 
Progressive emaciation of the body, accompanied with hectic fever, with no well-marked local symptoms. 
Affected by tabes; tabetic. 
To insert, as one piece of timber into another, by alternate scores or projections from the middle, to prevent slipping; to scarf. 
To live at the table of another; to board; to eat. [Obs.] "He . . . was driven from the society of men to table with the beasts." South. 
A spoon of the largest size commonly used at the table; -- distinguished from teaspoon, dessert spoon, etc. 
A kind of pocket memorandum book. 
A total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of religious origin and authority, formerly common in the islands of Polynesia; interdiction. [Written also tabu.] 
To put under taboo; to forbid, or to forbid the use of; to interdict approach to, or use of; as, to taboo the ground set apart as a sanctuary for criminals. [Written also tabu.] 
A small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both being played by the same person. [Written also tabour, and taber.] 
To make (a sound) with a tabor. 
See Tabor. 
A taboret. Young. 
See Taboo. 
One of the transverse plants found in the calicles of certain corals and hydroids. Tabula rasa ( Etym: [L.], a smoothed tablet; hence, figuratively, the mind in its earliest state, before receiving impressions from without; -- a term used by Hobbes, Locke, and others, in maintaining a theory opposed to the doctrine of innate ideas. 
A kind of customary payment by a tenant; -- a word used in old records. Cowell. Burrill. 
The bib, or whiting pout. [Prov. Eng.] 
The cross, or church, of St. Antony. See Illust. (6), under Cross, n. Mollett. 
See Tasse. Fairholt. 
It is silent; -- a direction for a vocal or instrumental part to be silent during a whole movement. 
Something used for taking hold or holding; a catch; a loop; a button. [Obs.] Ex. xxvi. 6. 
A spot, stain, or blemish. [Obs.] Warner. 
Done or made in silence; implied, but not expressed; silent; as, tacit consent is consent by silence, or by not interposing an objection. -- Tac"it*ly, adv. The tacit and secret theft of abusing our brother in civil contracts. Jer. Taylor. 
A peculiar flavor or taint; as, a musty tack. [Obs. or Colloq.] Drayton. 
A contract by which the use of a thing is set, or let, for hire; a lease. Burrill. 
To change the direction of (a vessel) when sailing closehauled, by putting the helm alee and shifting the tacks and sails so that she will proceed to windward nearly at right angles to her former course. 
To change the direction of a vessel by shifting the position of the helm and sails; also (as said of a vessel), to have her direction changed through the shifting of the helm and sails. See Tack, v. t., 4. Monk, . . . when he wanted his ship to tack to larboard, moved the mirth of his crew by calling out, "Wheel to the left." Macaulay. 
One who tacks. 
A small, broad-headed nail. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
See Tacky. 
The rigging and apparatus of a ship; also, any purchase where more than one block is used. Fall and tackle. See the Note under Pulley. -- Fishing tackle. See under Fishing, a. -- Ground tackle (Naut.), anchors, cables, etc. -- Gun tackle, the apparatus or appliances for hauling cannon in or out. -- Tackle fall, the rope, or rather the end of the rope, of a tackle, to which the power is applied. -- Tack tackle (Naut.), a small tackle to pull down the tacks of the principal sails. -- Tackle board, Tackle post (Ropemaking), a board, frame, or post, at the end of a ropewalk, for supporting the spindels, or whirls, for twisting the yarns. 
To begin to deal with; as, to tackle the problem. 
Sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., when not well dried. [U. S.] 
The stroke in beating time. 
See Tactics. 
A denomination of money, in China, worth nearly six shillings sterling, or about a dollar and forty cents; also, a weight of one ounce and a third. [Written also tale.] 
A genus of intestinal worms which includes the common tapeworms of man. See Tapeworm. 
A variety of rum. [West Indies] 
A sale of usually used items (such as furniture, clothing, household items or bric-a-brac), conducted by one or a small group of individuals, at a location which is not a normal retail establishment. 
To follow closely, as it were an appendage; -- often with after; as, to tag after a person. 
A child's play in which one runs after and touches another, and then runs away to avoid being touched. 
Same as Tagsore. [Obs.] 
Sheets of tin or other plate which run below the gauge. Knight. 
A little tag. 
A peculiar combination of pulleys. Brande & C. 
A large flying squirrel (Pteromys petuarista). Its body becomes two feet long, with a large bushy tail nearly as long. 
The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor). 
Same as Thar. 
Designating, or pertaining to, the chief linguistic stock of Indo-China, including the peoples of Siamese and Shan speech. 
A member of one of the tribes of the Tai stock. 
Limitation; abridgment. Burrill. Estate in tail, a limited, abridged, or reduced fee; an estate limited to certain heirs, and from which the other heirs are precluded; -- called also estate tail. Blackstone. 
Limited; abridged; reduced; curtailed; as, estate tail. 
The terminal, and usually flexible, posterior appendage of an animal. 
To hold by the end; -- said of a timber when it rests upon a wall or other support; -- with in or into. 
Having a tail; having (such) a tail or (so many) tails; -- chiefly used in composition; as, bobtailed, longtailed, etc. Snouted and tailed like a boar. Grew. 
Any imposition levied by the king, or any other lord, upon his subjects. The taille, as it still subsists in France, may serve as an example of those ancient tallages. It was a tax upon the profits of the farmer, which they estimate by the stock that he has upon the farm. A. Smith. 
The goldfish. [Prov. Eng.] Salt-water tailor (Zoöl.), the bluefish. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett. -- Tailor bird (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small Asiatic and East Indian singing birds belonging to Orthotomus, Prinia, and allied genera. They are noted for the skill with which they sew leaves together to form nests. The common Indian species are O. longicauda, which has the back, scapulars, and upper tail coverts yellowish green, and the under parts white; and the golden-headed tailor bird (O. coronatus), which has the top of the head golden yellow and the back and wings pale olive-green. 
To practice making men's clothes; to follow the business of a tailor. These tailoring artists for our lays Invent cramped rules. M. Green. 
Thin tin plate; also, tin foil for mirrors. Knight. 
To thrust ineffectually with a lance. [Obs.] 
Free from taint or infection; pure. 
Same as Tayra. 
See Tarn. Coleridge. 
A small nocturnal and arboreal Australian marsupial (Tarsipes rostratus) about the size of a mouse. It has a long muzzle, a long tongue, and very few teeth, and feeds upon honey and insects. Called also noolbenger. 
Taken. Chaucer. 
The quantity or copy given to a compositor at one time. 
p. p. of Take. 
One who takes or receives; one who catches or apprehended. 
Removal; murder. See To take off (c), under Take, v. t. The deep damnation of his taking-off. Shak. 
A sort of dog, noted for quick scent and eager pursuit of game. [Obs.] Wase (1654). 
A soft mineral of a soapy feel and a greenish, whitish, or grayish color, usually occurring in foliated masses. It is hydrous silicate of magnesia. Steatite, or soapstone, is a compact granular variety. Indurated talc, an impure, slaty talc, with a nearly compact texture, and greater hardness than common talc; -- called also talc slate. 
Same as Talc. 
See Tael. 
A count or declaration. [Obs.] To tell tale of, to make account of. [Obs.] Therefore little tale hath he told Of any dream, so holy was his heart. Chaucer. 
To tell stories. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gower. 
A kind of quadrangular piece of cloth put on by the Jews when repeating prayers in the synagogues. Crabb. 
Furnished with talents; possessing skill or talent; mentally gifted. Abp. Abbot (1663). 
Persons added to a jury, commonly from those in or about the courthouse, to make up any deficiency in the number of jurors regularly summoned, being like, or such as, the latter. Blount. Blackstone. (b) syntactically sing. 
Retaliation. [R.] Holinshed. 
Given to much talking. 
A certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior tenants, toward the public expenses. [Written also tailage, taillage.] 
Same as Tallith. 
An animal which produces tallow. 
To check off, as parcels of freight going inboard or outboard. W. C. Russell. Tally on (Naut.), to dovetail together. 
Stoutly; with spirit. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
The body of the Jewish civil and canonical law not comprised in the Pentateuch. 
One of certain small prominences on the hind part of the face of an elephant's tooth. 
A genus of small insectivores including the common European mole. 
The astragalus. 
A slope; the inclination of the face of a work. 
A Mexican dish made of crushed maize mixed with minced meat, seasoned with red pepper, dipped in oil, and steamed. 
See Tombac. [Obs.] 
To broach or enter upon; to taste, as a liquor; to divide; to distribute; to deal out. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] In the time of famine he is the Joseph of the country, and keeps the poor from starving. Then he tameth his stacks of corn, which not his covetousness, but providence, hath reserved for time of need. Fuller. 
Tamable. Bp. Wilkins. 
In a tame manner. 
One who tames or subdues. 
A genus of ground squirrels, including the chipmunk. 
Of or pertaining to the Tamils, or to their language. [Written also Tamul.] 
One of a Dravidian race of men native of Northern Ceylon and Southern India. 
A tampion. Johnson (Dict.). 
A venomous South African tick. Livingstone. 
One who tampers; one who deals unfairly. 
The edible fruit of an East Indian tree (Baccaurea Malayana) of the Spurge family. It somewhat resembles an apple. 
A plug introduced into a natural or artificial cavity of the body in order to arrest hemorrhage, or for the application of medicine. 
To plug with a tampon. 
Tamil. 
See Picul. 
Of the color of tan; yellowish-brown. Black and tan. See under Black, a. 
To get or become tanned. 
Same as Banxring. 
An Asiatic wild dog (Canis procyonoides), native of Japan and adjacent countries. It has a short, bushy tail. Called also raccoon dog. 
One after another; -- said especially of horses harnessed and driven one before another, instead of abreast. 
A team of horses harnessed one before the other. "He drove tandems." Thackeray. Tandem engine, a compound steam engine having two or more steam cylinders in the same axis, close to one another. -- Tandem bicycle or tricycle, one for two persons in which one rider sits before the other. 
A coarse blackish seaweed (Fuscus nodosus). Dr. Prior. Tang sparrow (Zoöl.), the rock pipit. [Prov. Eng.] 
A projecting part of an object by means of which it is secured to a handle, or to some other part; anything resembling a tongue in form or position. Specifically: -- (a) The part of a knife, fork, file, or other small instrument, which is inserted into the handle. (b) The projecting part of the breech of a musket barrel, by which the barrel is secured to the stock. (c) The part of a sword blade to which the handle is fastened. (d) The tongue of a buckle. [Prov. Eng.] 
A sharp, twanging sound; an unpleasant tone; a twang. 
To cause to ring or sound loudly; to ring. Let thy tongue tang arguments of state. Shak. To tang bees, to cause a swarm of bees to settle, by beating metal to make a din. 
To make a ringing sound; to ring. Let thy tongue tang arguments of state. Shak. 
To be entangled or united confusedly; to get in a tangle. 
Any large blackish seaweed, especially the Laminaria saccharina. See Kelp. Coral and sea fan and tangle, the blooms and the palms of the ocean. C. Kingsley. 
A Chinese toy made by cutting a square of thin wood, or other suitable material, into seven pieces, as shown in the cut, these pieces being capable of combination in various ways, so as to form a great number of different figures. It is now often used in primary schools as a means of instruction. 
The tenrec. 
A piebald variety of the horse, native of Thibet. 
An aroid plant (Caladium sagittæfolium), the leaves of which are boiled and eaten in the West Indies. [Written also tannier.] 
In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of a castle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry. This family [the O'Hanlons] were tanists of a large territory within the present county of Armagh. M. A. Lower. 
A firm composition of emery and a certain kind of cement, used for making grinding wheels, slabs, etc. 
A small Indian dry measure, averaging 240 grains in weight; also, a Bombay weight of 72 grains, for pearls. Simmonds. 
A large basin or cistern; an artificial receptacle for liquids. Tank engine, a locomotive which carries the water and fuel it requires, thus dispensing with a tender. -- Tank iron, plate iron thinner than boiler plate, and thicker than sheet iron or stovepipe iron. -- Tank worm (Zoöl.), a small nematoid worm found in the water tanks of India, supposed by some to be the young of the Guinea worm. 
A kind of boat used in Canton. It is about 25 feet long and is often rowed by women. Called also tankia. S. W. Williams. 
See Tanka. 
One whose occupation is to tan hides, or convert them into leather by the use of tan. 
Of or pertaining to tan; derived from, or resembling, tan; as, tannic acid. Tannic acid. (Chem.) (a) An acid obtained from nutgalls as a yellow amorphous substance, C14H10O9, having an astringent taste, and forming with ferric salts a bluish-black compound, which is the basis of common ink. Called also tannin, and gallotannic acid. (b) By extension, any one of a series of astringent substances resembling tannin proper, widely diffused through the vegetable kingdom, as in oak bark, willow, catechu, tea, coffee, etc. 
Same as Tannic acid, under Tannic. 
Same as Tenrec. 
Any plant of the composite genus Tanacetum. The common tansy (T. vulgare) has finely divided leaves, a strong aromatic odor, and a very bitter taste. It is used for medicinal and culinary purposes. 
A small scarlet arachnid. 
A ceremonial treatise related to Puranic and magic literature; esp., one of the sacred works of the worshipers of Sakti. -- Tan"tric (-trik), a. 
One of the popular religions of China, sanctioned by the state. -- Ta"o*ist, a. & n. 
In China, an official at the head of the civil and military affairs of a circuit, which consists of two or more fu, or territorial departments; --called also, by foreigners, intendant of circuit. Foreign consuls and commissioners associated with taotais as superintendants of trade at the treaty ports are ranked with the taotai. 
A signal, by drum or trumpet, for extinguishing all lights in soldiers' quarters and retiring to bed, -- usually given about a quarter of an hour after tattoo. Wilhelm. 
To strike a gentle blow. 
A tool for forming an internal screw, as in a nut, consisting of a hardened steel male screw grooved longitudinally so as to have cutting edges. On tap. (a) Ready to be drawn; as, ale on tap. (b) Broached, or furnished with a tap; as, a barrel on tap. -- Plug tap (Mech.), a screw-cutting tap with a slightly tapering end. -- Tap bolt, a bolt with a head on one end and a thread on the other end, to be screwed into some fixed part, instead of passing through the part and receiving a nut. See Illust. under Bolt. -- Tap cinder (Metal.), the slag of a puddling furnace. 
To form an internal screw in (anything) by means of a tool called a tap; as, to tap a nut. 
A kind of cloth prepared by the Polynesians from the inner bark of the paper mulberry; -- sometimes called also kapa. 
A painted tape, marked with linear dimensions, as inches, feet, etc., and often inclosed in a case, -- used for measuring. 
Regularly narrowed toward the point; becoming small toward one end; conical; pyramidical; as, taper fingers. 
To become gradually smaller toward one end; as, a sugar loaf tapers toward one end. 
To make or cause to taper. 
Worked or figured stuff; tapestry. [R.] Spenser. 
A small South American hare (Lepus Braziliensis). 
Any one of several species of large odd-toed ungulates belonging to Tapirus, Elasmognathus, and allied genera. They have a long prehensile upper lip, short ears, short and stout legs, a short, thick tail, and short, close hair. They have three toes on the hind feet, and four toes on the fore feet, but the outermost toe is of little use. 
Tapestry; formerly, the cover of a council table. On, or Upon, the tapis, on the table, or under consideration; as, to lay a motion in Parliament on the tapis. 
To cover or work with figures like tapestry. [R.] Holland. 
To lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to crouch; hence, to hide one's self. [Written also tappis, tappish, tappice.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] As a hound that, having roused a hart, Although he tappish ne'er so soft. Chapman. 
An obstruction, or indigestible mass, found in the intestine of bears and other animals during hibernation. 
The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor); -- called also tapperer, tabberer, little wood pie, barred woodpecker, wood tapper, hickwall, and pump borer. [Prov. Eng.] 
A lever or projection moved by some other piece, as a cam, or intended to tap or touch something else, with a view to produce change or regulate motion. G. Francis. Tappet motion, a valve motion worked by tappets from a reciprocating part, without an eccentric or cam, -- used in steam pumps, etc. 
A sailor; a seaman. [Colloq.] Swift. 
A thick, black, viscous liquid obtained by the distillation of wood, coal, etc., and having a varied composition according to the temperature and material employed in obtaining it. Coal tar. See in the Vocabulary. -- Mineral tar (Min.), a kind of soft native bitumen. -- Tar board, a strong quality of millboard made from junk and old tarred rope. Knight. -- Tar water. (a) A cold infusion of tar in water, used as a medicine. (b) The ammoniacal water of gas works. -- Wood tar, tar obtained from wood. It is usually obtained by the distillation of the wood of the pine, spruce, or fir, and is used in varnishes, cements, and to render ropes, oakum, etc., impervious to water. 
To smear with tar, or as with tar; as, to tar ropes; to tar cloth. To tar and feather a person. See under Feather, v. t. 
Slow; -- a direction to perform a passage slowly. 
A sloth. 
To make tardy. [Obs.] Shak. 
Tore. 
A name of several climbing or diffuse leguminous herbs of the genus Vicia; especially, the V. sativa, sometimes grown for fodder. 
Deficientcy in the weight or quantity of goods by reason of the weight of the cask, bag, or whatever contains the commodity, and is weighed with it; hence, the allowance or abatement of a certain weight or quantity which the seller makes to the buyer on account of the weight of such cask, bag, etc. 
To ascertain or mark the tare of (goods). 
Weighed; determined; reduced to equal or standard weight; as, tared filter papers, used in weighing precipitates. 
A shield or target. [Obs. or Poetic] "A buckler on a targe." Chaucer. 
The sliding crosspiece, or vane, on a leveling staff. 
A translation or paraphrase of some portion of the Old Testament Scriptures in the Chaldee or Aramaic language or dialect. 
To make a list of duties on, as goods. 
The siskin. [Prov.] 
The common tern; -- called also tarret, and tarrock. [Prov. Eng.] 
A mountain lake or pool. A lofty precipice in front, A silent tarn below. Wordsworth. 
A name for several aroid plants (Colocasia antiquorum, var. esculenta, Colocasia macrorhiza, etc.), and their rootstocks. They have large ovate-sagittate leaves and large fleshy rootstocks, which are cooked and used for food in tropical countries. 
A game of cards; -- called also taroc. Hoyle. 
A wild horse found in the region of the Caspian Sea. 
Same as Tarpum. 
A very large marine fish (Megapolis Atlanticus) of the Southern United States and the West Indies. It often becomes six or more feet in length, and has large silvery scales. The scales are a staple article of trade, and are used in fancywork. Called also tarpon, sabalo, savanilla, silverfish, and jewfish. 
See Trass. [Obs.] 
To set on, as a dog; to incite. [Obs.] Shak. 
Consisting of, or covered with, tar; like tar. 
Stay; stop; delay. [Obs.] E. Lodge. 
Of or pertaining to the tarsus (either of the foot or eye). -- n. 
Same as Tercel. [Obs.] 
The male falcon. 
tarsus. 
A male hawk. See Tercel. [Obs.] 
pl. of Tarsus. 
The foot of an insect or a crustacean. It usually consists of form two to five joints. 
A species of small open pie, or piece of pastry, containing jelly or conserve; a sort of fruit pie. 
Woolen cloth, checkered or crossbarred with narrow bands of various colors, much worn in the Highlands of Scotland; hence, any pattern of tartan; also, other material of a similar pattern. MacCullummore's heart will be as cold as death can make it, when it does not warm to the tartan. Sir W. Scott. The sight of the tartan inflamed the populace of London with hatred. Macaulay. 
A small coasting vessel, used in the Mediterranean, having one mast carrying large leteen sail, and a bowsprit with staysail or jib. 
A reddish crust or sediment in wine casks, consisting essentially of crude cream of tartar, and used in marking pure cream of tartar, tartaric acid, potassium carbonate, black flux, etc., and, in dyeing, as a mordant for woolen goods; -- called also argol, wine stone, etc. 
A native or inhabitant of Tartary in Asia; a member of any one of numerous tribes, chiefly Moslem, of Turkish origin, inhabiting the Russian Europe; -- written also, more correctly but less usually, Tatar. 
Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars. 
See Tartarus. Shak. 
In a tart manner; with acidity. 
A heap. [Obs.] "The tas of bodies slain." Chaucer. 
To tassel. [Obs.] "A purse of leather tassed with silk." Chaucer. 
A kind of clay for making melting pots. Percy Smith. 
One who imposes a task, or burdens another with labor; one whose duty is to assign tasks; an overseer. Ex. i. 11. All is, if I have grace to use it so, As ever in my great Taskmaster's eye. Milton. 
A piece of armor formerly worn to guard the things; a tasse. 
A piece of armor for the thighs, forming an appendage to the ancient corselet. 
A male hawk. See Tercel. 
A kind of bur used in dressing cloth; a teasel. 
A piece of board that is laid upon a wall as a sort of plate, to give a level surface to the ends of floor timbers; -- rarely used in the United States. Tassel flower (Bot.), a name of several composite plants of the genus Cineraria, especially the C. sconchifolia, and of the blossoms which they bear. 
To put forth a tassel or flower; as, maize tassels. 
To adorn with tassels. Chaucer. 
A defense for the front of the thigh, consisting of one or more iron plates hanging from the belt on the lower edge of the corselet. 
The one of the five senses by which certain properties of bodies (called their taste, savor, flavor) are ascertained by contact with the organs of taste. 
One of a peculiar kind of zooids situated on the polyp-stem of certain Siphonophora. They somewhat resemble the feeding zooids, but are destitute of mouths. See Siphonophora. 
A key or thing touched to produce a tone. Tasto solo, single touch; -- in old music, a direction denoting that the notes in the bass over or under which it is written should be performed alone, or with no other chords than unisons and octaves. 
Gunny cloth made from the fiber of the Corchorus olitorius, or jute. [India] 
A pony. [India] 
A spot or stain; also, a trick. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Ta, to take. 
To manure (land) by pasturing cattle on it, or causing them to lie upon it. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
The giant armadillo (Priodontes gigas) of tropical South America. It becomes nearly five feet long including the tail. It is noted for its burrowing powers, feeds largely upon dead animals, and sometimes invades human graves. 
To make (anything) by tatting; to work at tatting; as, tatted edging. 
A bamboo frame or trellis hung at a door or window of a house, over which water is suffered to trickle, in order to moisten and cool the air as it enters. [India] 
One who makes tatting. Caulfield & S. (Doct. of Needlework). 
A rag, or a part torn and hanging; -- chiefly used in the plural. Tear a passion to tatters, to very rags. Shak. 
To rend or tear into rags; -- used chiefly in the past participle as an adjective. Where waved the tattered ensigns of Ragfair. Pope. 
Idle talk or chat; trifling talk; prate. [They] told the tattle of the day. Swift. 
A beat of drum, or sound of a trumpet or bugle, at night, giving notice to soldiers to retreat, or to repair to their quarters in garrison, or to their tents in camp. The Devil's tattoo. See under Devil. 
To color, as the flesh, by pricking in coloring matter, so as to form marks or figures which can not be washed out. 
An indelible mark or figure made by puncturing the skin and introducing some pigment into the punctures; -- a mode of ornamentation practiced by various barbarous races, both in ancient and modern times, and also by some among civilized nations, especially by sailors. 
A mat or screen of fibers, as of the kuskus grass, hung at a door or window and kept wet to moisten and cool the air as it enters. [India] 
Same as Tatou. 
The common American toadfish; -- so called from a marking resembling the Greek letter tau (t). Tau cross. See Illust. 6, of Cross. 
See Taut. Totten. 
imp. & p. p. of Teach. Etym: [AS. imp. tæhte, p.p. getæht.] 
Very high or tall; as, a ship with taunt masts. Totten. 
To reproach with severe or insulting words; to revile; to upbraid; to jeer at; to flout. When I had at my pleasure taunted her. Shak. 
Upbraiding language; bitter or sarcastic reproach; insulting invective. With scoffs, and scorns, and contemelious taunts. Shak. With sacrilegious taunt and impious jest. Prior. 
The constellation Taurus. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any of a group of meteors appearing November 20-23; -- so called because they appear to radiate from a point in Taurus. 
A genus of ruminants comprising the common domestic cattle. 
Tight; stretched; not slack; -- said esp. of a rope that is tightly strained. 
An edible labroid fish (Haitula onitis, or Tautoga onitis) of the Atlantic coast of the United States. When adult it is nearly black, more or less irregularly barred, with greenish gray. Called also blackfish, oyster fish, salt-water chub, and moll. [Written also tautaug.] 
A public house where travelers and other transient guests are accomodated with rooms and meals; an inn; a hotel; especially, in modern times, a public house licensed to sell liquor in small quantities. 
Tow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To push; to tug; to tow. [Obs.] Drayton. 
In a tawdry manner. 
A necklace of a rural fashion, bought at St. Audrey's fair; hence, a necklace in general. [Obs.] Of which the Naiads and the blue Nereids make Them tawdries for their necks. Drayton. 
One who taws; a dresser of white leather. 
A place where skins are tawed. 
Of a dull yellowish brown color, like things tanned, or persons who are sunburnt; as, tawny Moor or Spaniard; the tawny lion. "A leopard's tawny and spotted hide." Longfellow. 
A leather lash, or other instrument of punishment, used by a schoolmaster. [Written also tawes, tawis, and tawse.] [Scot.] Never use the taws when a gloom can do the turn. Ramsay. 
To assess, fix, or determine judicially, the amount of; as, to tax the cost of an action in court. 
The American badger. 
One who collects taxes or revenues. -- Tax"gath`er*ing, n. 
A poisonous alkaloid of bitter taste extracted from the leaves and seeds of the European yew (Taxus baccata). Called also taxia.C35H47NO10 
Manipulation applied to a hernial tumor, or to an intestinal obstruction, for the purpose of reducing it. Dunglison. 
Same as Taxer, n., 2. 
A South American carnivore (Galera barbara) allied to the grison. The tail is long and thick. The length, including the tail, is about three feet. [Written also taira.] 
The teasel. [Obs.] 
An ornamental cup or vase with a large, flat, shallow bowl, resting on a pedestal and often having handles. 
A slight sound such as that made by pressing the tongue against the roof of the mouth and explosively sucking out the air at one side, as in urging on a horse. -- v. i. 
To take or drink tea. [Colloq.] 
To give instruction; to follow the business, or to perform the duties, of a preceptor. And gladly would he learn, and gladly teach. Chaucer. The priests thereof teach for hire. Micah iii. 11. 
One of the series of boilers in which the cane juice is treated in making sugar; especially, the last boiler of the series. Ure. 
A small cup from which to drink tea. 
A hoisting apparatus; an elevator; a crane; a lift. [Prov. Eng.] 
An Irishman; -- a term used in contempt. Johnson. 
A tree of East Indies (Tectona grandis) which furnishes an extremely strong and durable timber highly valued for shipbuilding and other purposes; also, the timber of the tree. [Written also teek.] African teak, a tree (Oldfieldia Africana) of Sierra Leone; also, its very heavy and durable wood; -- called also African oak. -- New Zeland teak, a large tree (Vitex littoralis) of New Zeland; also, its hard, durable timber. 
Any one of several species of small fresh-water ducks of the genus Anas and the subgenera Querquedula and Nettion. The male is handsomely colored, and has a bright green or blue speculum on the wings. 
A flock of wild ducks. 
To engage in the occupation of driving a team of horses, cattle, or the like, as in conveying or hauling lumber, goods, etc.; to be a teamster. team up, to form one or more teams, either for a common endeavor, or to compete in a contest. 
To convey or haul with a team; as, to team lumber. [R.] Thoreau. 
Yoked in, or as in, a team. [Obs.] Let their teamed fishes softly swim. Spenser. 
A vessel with a spout, in which tea is made, and from which it is poured into teacups. 
An ornamental stand, usually with three legs, having caddies for holding tea. 
A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland, and diffused between the eye and the eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion. Ordinarily the secretion passes through the lachrymal duct into the nose, but when it is increased by emotion or other causes, it overflows the lids. And yet for thee ne wept she never a tear. Chaucer. 
The act of tearing, or the state of being torn; a rent; a fissure. Macaulay. Wear and tear. See under Wear, n. 
One who tears or rends anything; also, one who rages or raves with violence. 
A small saucer in which a teacup is set. 
To tear or separate into minute shreds, as with needles or similar instruments. 
One who teases or plagues. [Colloq.] 
A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D. fullonum) bears a large flower head covered with stiff, prickly, hooked bracts. This flower head, when dried, is used for raising a nap on woolen cloth. 
To subject, as woolen cloth, to the action of teasels, or any substitute for them which has an effect to raise a nap. 
A jager gull. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Teasel. 
A small protuberance or nozzle resembling the teat of an animal. 
Having protuberances resembling the teat of an animal. 
See Tath. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Teasel. 
The stoker or fireman of a furnace, as in glass works. Tomlinson. 
See Teasel. 
The tenth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of December with a part of January. Esther ii. 16. 
Peevish; fretful; irritable. 
Covertly; privately; secretly. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
See Tucum. 
To spread, or turn from the swath, and scatter for drying, as new-mowed grass; -- chiefly used in the past participle. The smell of grain or tedded grass. Milton. The tedded hay and corn sheaved in one field. Coleridge. 
A machine for stirring and spreading hay, to expedite its drying. 
Same as Tether. 
Same as Tether. 
The gate of a mold, through which the melted metal is poured; runner, geat. 
Irksomeness; wearisomeness; tediousness. [Written also tædium.] Cowper. To relieve the tedium, he kept plying them with all manner of bams. Prof. Wilson. The tedium of his office reminded him more strongly of the willing scholar, and his thoughts were rambling. Dickens. 
A short piece of pipe having a lateral outlet, used to connect a line of pipe with a pipe at a right angle with the line; -- so called because it resembles the letter T in shape. 
See Teak. [Obs.] 
Sesame. [Sometimes written til.] Teel oil, sesame oil. 
To pour, as steel, from a melting pot; to fill, as a mold, with molten metal. 
To think fit. [Obs. or R.] G. Gifford. 
To produce; to bring forth. [R.] That [grief] of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker; Each minute teems a new one. Shak. 
One who teems, or brings forth. 
Grief; sorrow; affiction; pain. [Archaic] Chaucer. Spenser. With public toil and private teen Thou sank'st alone. M. Arnold. 
To excite; to provoke; to vex; to affict; to injure. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
To hedge or fence in; to inclose. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
To kindle; to burn. [Obs.] Herrick. 
The years of one's age having the termination -teen, beginning with thirteen and ending with nineteen; as, a girl in her teens. 
Very small; tiny. [Colloq.] 
Fretful; peevish; pettish; cross. [Prov. Eng.] 
The mino bird. 
A tinsmith's stake, or small anvil. 
A pipit. [Prov. Eng.] 
Any one of several species of small, soft-furred South American monkeys belonging to Callithrix, Chrysothrix, and allied genera; as, the collared teetee (Callithrix torquatus), and the squirrel teetee (Chrysothrix sciurea). Called also pinche, titi, and saimiri. See Squirrel monkey, under Squirrel. 
To move up and down on the ends of a balanced plank, or the like, as children do for sport; to seesaw; to titter; to titter- totter. [U. S.] [The bobolink] alit upon the flower, and teetered up and down. H. W. Beecher. 
pl. of Tooth. 
To breed, or grow, teeth. 
The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] 
The pewit. [Prov. Eng.] 
A sheep in its second year; also, a doe in its second year. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
The inner layer of the coating of a seed, usually thin and delicate; the endopleura. 
A small appendage situated above the base of the wings of Hymenoptera and attached to the mesonotum. 
The lime tree, or linden; -- called also teil tree. 
A tithe. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
See Teyne. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Tint; color; tinge, See Tint. [Obs.] Time shall . . . embrown the teint. Dryden. 
A Siberian ibex. 
Of or pertaining to a web; hence, spinning webs; retiary. "Pictures of telary spiders." Sir T. Browne. 
An East Indian carnivore (Mydaus meliceps) allied to the badger, and noted for the very offensive odor that it emits, somewhat resembling that of a skunk. It is a native of the high mountains of Java and Sumatra, and has long, silky fur. Called also stinking badger, and stinkard. 
A rude four-wheeled, springless wagon, used among the Russians. 
A kind of amulet or magical charm. [Obs.] J. Gregory. 
Denoting the final end or purpose, as distinguished from ecbatic. See Ecbatic. Gibbs. 
That which is told; tale; account. [R.] I am at the end of my tell. Walpole. 
A hill or mound. W. M. Thomson. 
Any species of Tellina. 
The office or employment of a teller. 
The terminal joint or movable piece at the end of the abdomen of Crustacea and other articulates. See Thoracostraca. 
Of or pertaining to the Telugu language, or the Telugus. 
To bring to a proper degree of hardness; as, to temper iron or steel. The tempered metals clash, and yield a silver sound. Dryden. 
Milk of lime, or other substance, employed in the process formerly used to clarify sugar. Temper screw, in deep well boring, an adjusting screw connecting the working beam with the rope carrying the tools, for lowering the tools as the drilling progresses. 
A mode or process of painting; distemper. 
A contrivence used in a loom for keeping the web stretched transversely. 
The space, on either side of the head, back of the eye and forehead, above the zygomatic arch and in front of the ear. 
The edifice erected at Jerusalem for the worship of Jehovah. Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch. John x. 23. 
To build a temple for; to appropriate a temple to; as, to temple a god. [R.] Feltham. 
The rate or degree of movement in time. A tempo giusto (joos"to) Etym: [It.], in exact time; -- sometimes, directing a return to strict time after a tempo rubato. -- Tempo rubato. See under Rubato. 
Time. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Temse. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
The quality or state of being temptable; lability to temptation. 
A sieve. [Written also tems, and tempse.] [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Temse bread, Temsed bread, Temse loaf, bread made of flour better sifted than common fluor. [Prov. Eng.] 
One more than nine; twice five. With twice ten sail I crossed the Phrygian Sea. Dryden. 
The quality or state of being tenable; tenableness. 
The holding by the fourth hand of the best and third best cards of a suit led; also, sometimes, the combination of best with third best card of a suit in any hand. 
Tenaciousness; obstinacy. [Obs.] Barrow. 
One who holds or possesses lands, or other real estate, by any kind of right, whether in fee simple, in common, in severalty, for life, for years, or at will; also, one who has the occupation or temporary possession of lands or tenements the title of which is in another; -- correlative to landlord. See Citation from Blackstone, under Tenement, 2. Blount. Wharton. 
To hold, occupy, or possess as a tenant. Sir Roger's estate is tenanted by persons who have served him or his ancestors. Addison. 
A European fresh-water fish (Tinca tinca, or T. vulgaris) allied to the carp. It is noted for its tenacity of life. 
To make a tender of; to offer or tender. [Obs.] 
To await; to expect. [Obs.] Shak. 
Tendency. [Obs.] 
A vessel employed to attend other vessels, to supply them with provisions and other stores, to convey intelligence, or the like. 
To offer in payment or satisfaction of a demand, in order to save a penalty or forfeiture; as, to tender the amount of rent or debt. 
An offer, either of money to pay a debt, or of service to be performed, in order to save a penalty or forfeiture, which would be incurred by nonpayment or nonperformance; as, the tender of rent due, or of the amount of a note, with interest. 
Heeling over too easily when under sail; -- said of a vessel. 
Regard; care; kind concern. [Obs.] Shak. 
To have a care of; to be tender toward; hence, to regard; to esteem; to value. [Obs.] For first, next after life, he tendered her good. Spenser. Tender yourself more dearly. Shak. To see a prince in want would move a miser's charity. Our western princes tendered his case, which they counted might be their own. Fuller. 
A tough insensible cord, bundle, or band of fibrous connective tissue uniting a muscle with some other part; a sinew. Tendon reflex (Physiol.), a kind of reflex act in which a muscle is made to contract by a blow upon its tendon. Its absence is generally a sign of disease. See Knee jerk, under Knee. 
Tender feeling or fondness; affection. 
A tender; an offer. [Obs.] Heylin. 
See 1st and 2d Teen. [Obs.] 
A tenet. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. 
Any opinion, principle, dogma, belief, or doctrine, which a person holds or maintains as true; as, the tenets of Plato or of Cicero. That al animals of the land are in their kind in the sea, . . . is a tenet very questionable. Sir T. Browne. The religious tenets of his family he had early renounced with contempt. Macaulay. 
See Tænia. 
A tincture, rarely employed, which is considered as an orange color or bright brown. It is represented by diagonal lines from sinister to dexter, crossed by vertical lines. 
A play in which a ball is driven to and fro, or kept in motion by striking it with a racket or with the open hand. Shak. His easy bow, his good stories, his style of dancing and playing tennis, . . . were familiar to all London. Macaulay. Court tennis, the old game of tennis as played within walled courts of peculiar construction; -- distinguished from lawn tennis. -- Lawn tennis. See under Lawn, n. -- Tennis court, a place or court for playing the game of tennis. Shak. 
To drive backward and forward, as a ball in playing tennis. [R.] Spenser. 
Lit., King of Heaven; -- a title of the emperor of Japan as the head of the Shinto religion. 
The tapir. 
A projecting member left by cutting away the wood around it, and made to insert into a mortise, and in this way secure together the parts of a frame; especially, such a member when it passes entirely through the thickness of the piece in which the mortise is cut, and shows on the other side. Cf. Tooth, Tusk. Tenon saw, a saw with a thin blade, usually stiffened by a brass or steel back, for cutting tenons. [Corruptly written tenant saw.] Gwilt. 
To cut or fit for insertion into a mortise, as the end of a piece of timber. 
An exact copy of a writing, set forth in the words and figures of it. It differs from purport, which is only the substance or general import of the instrument. Bouvier. 
A small insectivore (Centetes ecaudatus), native of Madagascar, but introduced also into the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius; -- called also tanrec. The name is applied to other allied genera. See Tendrac. 
One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event signified; the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time. 
Stretched tightly; strained to stiffness; rigid; not lax; as, a tense fiber. The temples were sunk, her forehead was tense, and a fatal paleness was upon her. Goldsmith. -- Tense"ly, adv. -- Tense"ness, n. 
A muscle that stretches a part, or renders it tense. 
A kind of wine of a deep red color, chiefly from Galicia or Malaga in Spain; -- called also tent wine, and tinta. 
To attend to; to heed; hence, to guard; to hinder. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 
To probe or to search with a tent; to keep open with a tent; as, to tent a wound. Used also figuratively. I'll tent him to the quick. Shak. 
The representation of a tent used as a bearing. Tent bed, a high-post bedstead curtained with a tentlike canopy. -- Tent caterpillar (Zoöl.), any one of several species of gregarious caterpillars which construct on trees large silken webs into which they retreat when at rest. Some of the species are very destructive to fruit trees. The most common American species is the larva of a bombycid moth (Clisiocampa Americana). Called also lackery caterpillar, and webworm. 
To lodge as a tent; to tabernacle. Shak. We 're tenting to-night on the old camp ground. W. Kittredge. 
Covered with tents. 
A kind of governor. 
A machine or frame for stretching cloth by means of hooks, called tenter-hooks, so that it may dry even and square. Tenter ground, a place where tenters are erected. -- Tenter-hook, a sharp, hooked nail used for fastening cloth on a tenter. -- To be on the tenters, or on the tenter-hooks, to be on the stretch; to be in distress, uneasiness, or suspense. Hudibras. 
To admit extension. Woolen cloth will tenter, linen scarcely. Bacon. 
To hang or stretch on, or as on, tenters. 
The interval between any tone and the tone represented on the tenth degree of the staff above it, as between one of the scale and three of the octave above; the octave of the third. 
Attentive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One of the three surd mutes k, p, t; -- so called in relation to their respective middle letters, or medials, g, b, d, and their aspirates, x, f, th. The term is also applied to the corresponding letters and articulate elements in other languages. 
The manner of holding lands and tenements of a superior. 
A division of a perianth. [R.] 
An Indian wigwam or tent. 
To make or become tepid, or moderately warm. Goldsmith. 
Moderately warm; lukewarm; as, a tepid bath; tepid rays; tepid vapors. -- Tep"id*ness, n. 
Gentle heat; moderate warmth; tepidness. Arbuthnot. 
See Teraphim. 
Of, pertaining to, or containing, terbium; also, designating certain of its compounds. 
See Tierce. 
See Tiercel. Called also tarsel, tassel. Chaucer. 
A triplet. Hiles. 
A genus of long, slender, wormlike bivalve mollusks which bore into submerged wood, such as the piles of wharves, bottoms of ships, etc.; -- called also shipworm. See Shipworm. See Illust. in App. 
A sandpiper (Terekia cinerea) of the Old World, breeding in the far north of eastern Europe and Asia and migrating to South Africa and Australia. It frequents rivers. 
Round; terete. [Obs.] Fotherby. 
Cylindrical and slightly tapering; columnar, as some stems of plants. 
Of or pertaining to back, or tergum. See Dorsal. 
A small yellow singing bird, with an ash-colored head; the European siskin. Called also tarin. 
A point, line, or superficies, that limits; as, a line is the term of a superficies, and a superficies is the term of a solid. 
To apply a term to; to name; to call; to denominate. Men term what is beyond the limits of the universe "imaginary space." Locke. 
The terminal lamina, or thin ventral part, of the anterior wall of the third ventricle of the brain. B. G. Wilder. 
One who has an estate for a term of years or for life. 
A genus of Pseudoneuroptera including the white ants, or termites. See Termite. 
Occurring every term; as, a termly fee. [R.] Bacon. 
Term by term; every term. [R.] "Fees . . . that are termly given." Bacon. 
Same as Termer, 2. 
Any one of numerous species of long-winged aquatic birds, allied to the gulls, and belonging to Sterna and various allied genera. 
Threefold; triple; consisting of three; ternate. Tern flowers (Bot.), flowers growing three and three together. -- Tern leaves (Bot.), leaves arranged in threes, or three by three, or having three in each whorl or set. -- Tern peduncles (Bot.), three peduncles growing together from the same axis. -- Tern schooner (Naut.), a three-masted schooner. 
That which consists of, or pertains to, three things or numbers together; especially, a prize in a lottery resulting from the favorable combination of three numbers in the drawing; also, the three numbers themselves. She'd win a tern in Thursday's lottery. Mrs. Browning. 
A white crystalline substance regarded as a hydrate of oil of turpentine. 
The earth; earth. Terra alba Etym: [L., white earth] (Com.), a white amorphous earthy substance consisting of burnt gypsum, aluminium silicate (kaolin), or some similar ingredient, as magnesia. It is sometimes used to adulterate certain foods, spices, candies, paints, etc. -- Terra cotta. Etym: [It., fr. terra earth + cotta, fem. of cotto cooked, L. coctus, p.p. of coquere to cook. See Cook, n.] Baked clay; a kind of hard pottery used for statues, architectural decorations, figures, vases, and the like. -- Terræ filius Etym: [L., son of the earth], formerly, one appointed to write a satirical Latin poem at the public acts in the University of Oxford; -- not unlike the prevaricator at Cambridge, England. -- Terra firma Etym: [L.], firm or solid earth, as opposed to water. -- Terra Japonica. Etym: [NL.] Same as Gambier. It was formerly supposed to be a kind of earth from Japan. -- Terra Lemnia Etym: [L., Lemnian earth], Lemnian earth. See under Lemnian. -- Terra ponderosa Etym: [L., ponderous earth] (Min.), barite, or heavy spar. -- Terra di Sienna. See Sienna. 
See 2d Terrier, 2. 
See . 
A spherical magnet so placed that its poles, equator, etc., correspond to those of the earth. [Obs.] Chambers. 
One of the rings on the top of the saddle of a harness, through which the reins pass. 
The act of terrorizing, or state of being terrorized; a mode of government by terror or intimidation. Jefferson. 
A kind of heavy colored fabric, either all silk, or silk and worsted, or silk and cotton, often called terry velvet, used for upholstery and trimmings. 
A trisulphide. 
A cupel or cupelling hearth in which precious metals are melted for trial and refinement. Our ingots, tests, and many mo. Chaucer. 
To refine, as gold or silver, in a test, or cupel; to subject to cupellation. 
A witness. [Obs.] Prelates and great lords of England, who were for the more surety tests of that deed. Ld. Berners. 
To make a testament, or will. [Obs.] 
An old French silver coin, originally of the value of about eighteen pence, subsequently reduced to ninepence, and later to sixpence, sterling. Hence, in modern English slang, a sixpence; -- often contracted to tizzy. Called also teston. Shak. 
pl. of Teste, or of Testis. 
Testy; headstrong; obstinate. [Obs.] Testif they were and lusty for to play. Chaucer. 
A testicle. 
A tester; a sixpence. [Obs.] 
Fretful; peevish; petulant; easily irritated. Must I observe you must I stand and crouch Under your testy humor Shak. I was displeased with myself; I was testy. Latimer. 
A morbid condition resembling tetanus, but distinguished from it by being less severe and having intermittent spasms. 
A gobioid fish (Eleotris gyrinus) of the Southern United States; -- called also sleeper. 
See Tautog. [R.] 
See Techy. Shak. 
A kind of wig; false hair. 
A large African antelope (Alcejaphus tora). It has widely divergent, strongly ringed horns. 
A long rope or chain by which an animal is fastened, as to a stake, so that it can range or feed only within certain limits. 
To confine, as an animal, with a long rope or chain, as for feeding within certain limits. And by a slender cord was tethered to a stone. Wordsworth. 
A genus of a large naked mollusks having a very large, broad, fringed cephalic disk, and branched dorsal gills. Some of the species become a foot long and are brilliantly colored. 
A tetravalent or quadrivalent atom or radical; as, carbon is a tetrad. 
A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H4, analogous to benzene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule. Tetrol phenol, furfuran. [Obs.] 
Butyl; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule. 
A vesicular disease of the skin; herpes. See Herpes. Honeycomb tetter (Med.), favus. -- Moist tetter (Med.), eczema. -- Scaly tetter (Med.), psoriasis. Tetter berry (Bot.), the white bryony. 
To affect with tetter. Shak. 
The cicada. [Obs. or R.] 
Testy; irritable. [Obs.] Burton. 
The lapwing; -- called also teuchit. [Prov. Eng.] 
The redshank. [Prov. Eng.] 
The language of the ancient Germans; the Teutonic languages, collectively. 
To work hard; to strive; to fuse. [Local] 
To tow along, as a vessel. [Obs.] Drayton. 
A rope or chain for towing a boat; also, a cord; a string. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
A tribe of American Indians including many of the Pueblos of New Mexico and adjacent regions. 
Fatigued; worn with labor or hardship. [Obs. or Local] Mir. for Mag. 
The lapwing; -- called also teewheep. [Prov. Eng.] 
To beat; to break, as flax or hemp. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
A structure on the hurricane deck of a steamer, containing the pilot house, officers' cabins, etc. [Western U.S.] Knight. 
The four Gospels, by way of distinction or eminence. [R.] 
To write in large characters, as in text hand. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
A thin plate of metal. [Obs.] "A teyne of silver." Chaucer. 
To thwack. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A German silver coin worth about three shillings sterling, or about 73 cents. 
A division of Tunicata comprising the free-swimming species, such as Salpa and Doliolum. 
An Asiatic deer (Rucervus Eldi) resembling the swamp deer; -- called also Eld's deer. 
A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want. Behold, a greater than Solomon is here. Matt. xii. 42. Which when Beelzebub perceived, than whom, Satan except, none higher sat. Milton. It's wiser being good than bad; It's safer being meek than fierce; It's fitter being sane than mad. R. Browning. 
Then. See Then. [Obs.] Gower. Thanne longen folk to gon on pilgrimages. Chaucer. 
A police station. [India] Kipling. 
A dignitary under the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England. Of these there were two orders, the king's thanes, who attended the kings in their courts and held lands immediately of them, and the ordinary thanes, who were lords of manors and who had particular jurisdiction within their limits. After the Conquest, this title was disused, and baron took its place. 
A expression of gratitude; an acknowledgment expressive of a sense of favor or kindness received; obligation, claim, or desert, or gratitude; -- now generally used in the plural. "This ceremonial thanks." Massinger. If ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye for sinners also do even the same. Luke vi. 33. What great thank, then, if any man, reputed wise and constant, will neither do, nor permit others under his charge to do, that which he approves not, especially in matter of sin Milton. Thanks, thanks to thee, most worthy friend, For the lesson thou hast taught. Longfellow. His thanks, Her thanks, etc., of his or her own accord; with his or her good will; voluntary. [Obs.] Full sooth is said that love ne lordship, Will not, his thanks, have no fellowship. Chaucer. -- In thank, with thanks or thankfulness. [Obs.] -- Thank offering, an offering made as an expression of thanks. 
To express gratitude to (anyone) for a favor; to make acknowledgments to (anyone) for kindness bestowed; -- used also ironically for blame. "Graunt mercy, lord, that thank I you," quod she. Chaucer. I thank thee for thine honest care. Shak. Weigh the danger with the doubtful bliss, And thank yourself if aught should fall amiss. Dryden. 
A goatlike animal (Capra Jemlaica) native of the Himalayas. It has small, flattened horns, curved directly backward. The hair of the neck, shoulders, and chest of the male is very long, reaching to the knees. Called also serow, and imo. [Written also thaar, and tahr.] 
It needs; need. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. What thar thee reck or care Chaucer. 
Twisted guts. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ascham. 
A small American butterfly (Phycoides tharos) having the upper surface of the wings variegated with orange and black, the outer margins black with small white crescents; -- called also pearl crescent. 
A name in the West Indies for several kinds of palm, the leaves of which are used for thatching. Thatch sparrow, the house sparrow. [Prov. Eng.] 
To cover with, or with a roof of, straw, reeds, or some similar substance; as, to thatch a roof, a stable, or a stack of grain. 
Same as Theave. [Prov. Eng.] 
To cause (frozen things, as earth, snow, ice) to melt, soften, or dissolve. 
The melting of ice, snow, or other congealed matter; the resolution of ice, or the like, into the state of a fluid; liquefaction by heat of anything congealed by frost; also, a warmth of weather sufficient to melt that which is congealed. Dryden. 
Liquefying by heat after having been frozen; thawing; melting. 
See Thee. [Obs.] Chaucer. Milton. 
A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. 
By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. "Yet not the more cease I." Milton. So much the rather thou, Celestial Light, Shine inward, and the mind through all her powers Irradiate. Milton. 
A genus of plants found in China and Japan; the tea plant. 
A ewe lamb of the first year; also, a sheep three years old. [Written also thave.] [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Of or pertaining to Thebes. Theban year (Anc. Chron.), the Egyptian year of 365 days and 6 hours. J. Bryant. 
A native or inhabitant of Thebes; also, a wise man. I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban. Shak. 
Of or pertaining to a theca; as, a thecal abscess. 
Any one of many species of small delicately colored butterflies belonging to Thecla and allied genera; -- called also hairstreak, and elfin. 
Success; fortune; luck; chance. [Obs.] Evil thedom on his monk's snout. Chaucer. 
To thrive; to prosper. [Obs.] "He shall never thee." Chaucer. Well mote thee, as well can wish your thought. Spenser. 
The objective case of thou. See Thou. 
The act of stealing; specifically, the felonious taking and removing of personal property, with an intent to deprive the rightful owner of the same; larceny. 
Thane. See Thane. E. A. Freeman. 
See Caffeine. Called also theina. 
The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country. 
The belief or acknowledgment of the existence of a God, as opposed to atheism, pantheism, or polytheism. 
One who believes in the existence of a God; especially, one who believes in a personal God; -- opposed to atheist. 
The objective case of they. See They. Go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. Matt. xxv. 9. Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father. Matt. xxv. 34. 
A noun or verb, not modified by inflections; also, that part of a noun or verb which remains unchanged (except by euphonic variations) in declension or conjugation; stem. 
The goddess of law and order; the patroness of existing rights. 
At that time; then; in those days; -- correlative to nowadays. [R.] 
Anhydrous sodium sulphate, a mineral of a white or brown color and vitreous luster. 
From that time; thereafter. If the salt have lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted it is thenceforth good for nothing. Matt. v. 13. 
A theosophist. 
In opposition; against one's course. [Obs.] If that him list to stand thereagain. Chaucer. 
Not fermented; unleavened; -- said of bread, loaves, etc. [Obs.] Pask and the feast of therf loaves. Wyclif. 
The plural of this. See This. 
An affirmation, or distinction from a supposition or hypothesis. 
A letter of the Greek alphabet corresponding to th in English; -- sometimes called the unlucky letter, from being used by the judges on their ballots in passing condemnation on a prisoner, it being the first letter of the Greek qa`natos, death. Theta function (Math.), one of a group of functions used in developing the properties of elliptic functions. 
Having strong or large thews or muscles; muscular; sinewy; strong. 
The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. Jolif and glad they went unto here [their] rest And casten hem [them] full early for to sail. Chaucer. They of Italy salute you. Heb. xiii. 24. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Matt. v. 6. 
A slice; a skimmer; a spatula; a pudding stick. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ainsworth. 
To thicken. [R.] The nightmare Life-in-death was she, Who thicks man's blood with cold. Coleridge. 
Thither. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Like a thief; thievish; thievishly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To practice theft; to steal. 
The proximal segment of the hind limb between the knee and the trunk. See Femur. 
That same; this; that. [Obs.] "I love thilk lass." Spenser. Thou spake right now of thilke traitor death. Chaucer. 
The floor of a coal mine. Raymond. Thill coupling, a device for connecting the thill of a vehicle to the axle. 
Not thickly or closely; in a seattered state; as, seed sown thin. Spain is thin sown of people. Bacon. 
To make thin (in any of the senses of the adjective). 
To grow or become thin; -- used with some adverbs, as out, away, etc.; as, geological strata thin out, i. e., gradually diminish in thickness until they disappear. 
A form of the possessive case of the pronoun thou, now superseded in common discourse by your, the possessive of you, but maintaining a place in solemn discourse, in poetry, and in the usual language of the Friends, or Quakers. 
Clothes; furniture; appurtenances; luggage; as, to pack or store one's things. [Colloq.] 
Capable of being thought or conceived; cogitable. Sir W. Hamilton. 
In a thin manner; in a loose, scattered manner; scantily; not thickly; as, ground thinly planted with trees; a country thinly inhabited. 
The third tone of the scale; the mediant. 
To bore; to drill or thrill. See Thrill. [Obs. or Prov.] That with a spear was thirled his breast bone. Chaucer. 
To have a thirst for. [R.] He seeks his keeper's flesh, and thirsts his blood. Prior. 
Being three times ten; consisting of one more than twenty-nine; twenty and ten; as, the month of June consists of thirty days. 
Being one of thirty-two equal parts into which anything is divided. Thirty-second note (Mus.), the thirty-second part of a whole note; a demi-semiquaver. 
Any one of several prickly composite plants, especially those of the genera Cnicus, Craduus, and Onopordon. The name is often also applied to other prickly plants. Blessed thistle, Carduus benedictus, so named because it was formerly considered an antidote to the bite of venomous creatures. -- Bull thistle, Cnicus lanceolatus, the common large thistle of neglected pastures. -- Canada thistle, Cnicus arvensis, a native of Europe, but introduced into the United States from Canada. -- Cotton thistle, Onopordon Acanthium. -- Fuller's thistle, the teasel. -- Globe thistle, Melon thistle, etc. See under Globe, Melon, etc. -- Pine thistle, Atractylis gummifera, a native of the Mediterranean region. A vicid gum resin flows from the involucre. -- Scotch thistle, either the cotton thistle, or the musk thistle, or the spear thistle; -- all used national emblems of Scotland. -- Sow thistle, Sonchus oleraceus. -- Spear thistle. Same as Bull thistle. -- Star thistle, a species of Centaurea. See Centaurea. -- Torch thistle, a candelabra-shaped plant of the genus Cereus. See Cereus. -- Yellow thistle, Cincus horridulus. Thistle bird (Zoöl.), the American goldfinch, or yellow-bird (Spinus tristis); -- so called on account of its feeding on the seeds of thistles. See Illust. under Goldfinch. -- Thistle butterfly (Zoöl.), a handsomely colored American butterfly (Vanessa cardui) whose larva feeds upon thistles; -- called also painted lady. -- Thistle cock (Zoöl.), the corn bunting (Emberiza militaria). [Prov. Eng.] -- Thistle crown, a gold coin of England of the reign of James I., worth four shillings. -- Thistle finch (Zoöl.), the goldfinch; -- so called from its fondness for thistle seeds. [Prov. Eng.] -- Thistle funnel, a funnel having a bulging body and flaring mouth. 
The. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Those. [Obs.] This knowen tho that be to wives bound. Chaucer. 
Then. [Obs.] Spenser. To do obsequies as was tho the guise. Chaucer. 
Though. [Reformed spelling.] 
To bear; to endure; to undergo. [Obs. or Scot.] Gower. So much woe as I have with you tholed. Chaucer. To thole the winter's steely dribble. Burns. 
To wait. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A strap of leather; especially, one used for fastening anything. And nails for loosened spears, and thongs for shields, provide. Dryden. Thong seal (Zoöl.), the bearded seal. See the Note under Seal. 
Of or pertaining to a group of carnivores, including the wovels and the dogs. 
The god of thunder, and son of Odin. 
Of or pertaining to a bed. [R.] 
The part of the trunk between the neck and the abdomen, containing that part of the body cavity the walls of which are supported by the dorsal vertebræ, the ribs, and the sternum, and which the heart and lungs are situated; the chest. 
A rare white earthy substance, consisting of the oxide of thorium; -- formerly called also thorina. 
Of or pertaining to thorium; designating the compounds of thorium. 
Any shrub or small tree which bears thorns; especially, any species of the genus Cratægus, as the hawthorn, whitethorn, cockspur thorn. 
To prick, as with a thorn. [Poetic] I am the only rose of all the stock That never thorn'd him. Tennyson. 
Thorough. [Reformed spelling.] 
Through. [Obs.] "Thorow bramble, pits, and floods." Beau. & Fl. 
Thorough. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 
The plural of that. See That. 
The god of eloquence and letters among the ancient Egyptians, and supposed to be the inventor of writing and philosophy. He corresponded to the Mercury of the Romans, and was usually represented as a human figure with the head of an ibis or a lamb. 
The second personal pronoun, in the singular number, denoting the person addressed; thyself; the pronoun which is used in addressing persons in the solemn or poetical style. Art thou he that should come Matt. xi. 3. 
To address as thou, esp. to do so in order to treat with insolent familiarity or contempt. If thou thouest him some thrice, it shall not be amiss. Shak. 
To use the words thou and thee in discourse after the manner of the Friends. [R.] 
Granting, admitting, or supposing that; notwithstanding that; if. Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. Job xiii. 15. Not that I so affirm, though so it seem. Milton. 
However; nevertheless; notwithstanding; -- used in familiar language, and in the middle or at the end of a sentence. I would not be as sick though for his place. Shak. A good cause would do well, though. Dryden. 
To load or burden; as, to thrack a man with property. [Obs.] South. 
Of or pertaining to a thrall; in the condition of a thrall; bond; enslaved. [Obs.] Spenser. The fiend that would make you thrall and bond. Chaucer. 
To enslave. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. 
See Throse. [Scot.] Burns. 
The state of being threadbare. 
To contend obstinately; to be pertinacious. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] It's not for a man with a woman to threap. Percy's Reliques. 
An obstinate decision or determination; a pertinacious affirmation. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] He was taken a threap that he would have it finished before the year was done. Carlyle. 
The expression of an intention to inflict evil or injury on another; the declaration of an evil, loss, or pain to come; meance; threatening; denunciation. There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats. Shak. 
To threaten. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak. Of all his threating reck not a mite. Chaucer. Our dreaded admiral from far they threat. Dryden. 
One more than two; two and one. "I offer thee three things." 2 Sam. xxiv. 12. Three solemn aisles approach the shrine. Keble. 
Having or consisting of three coats; -- applied to plastering which consists of pricking-up, floating, and a finishing coat; or, as called in the United States, a scratch coat, browning, and finishing coat. 
Lamentation; threnody; a dirge. Shak. The threns . . . of the prophet Jeremiah. Jer. Taylor. 
To call; to term. [Obs.] "Luna silver we threpe." Chaucer. 
Same as Thrash. He would thresh, and thereto dike and delve. Chaucer. 
imp. of Throw. 
The missel thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 
Third. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Thread; continuous line. [Archaic] I resume the thrid of my discourse. Dryden. 
One of several species of flowering plants of the genera Statice and Armeria. Common thrift (Bot.), Armeria vulgaris; -- also called sea pink. 
A warbling; a trill. 
A breathing place or hole; a nostril, as of a bird. 
Piercing; sharp; thrilling. [Obs.] "His thrillant spear." Spenser. 
To press, crowd, or throng. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any one of numerous small species of Thysanoptera, especially those which attack useful plants, as the grain thrips (Thrips cerealium). 
Thrist. [Obs.] Spenser. 
p. p. of Thrive. 
The part of a chimney between the gathering, or portion of the funnel which contracts in ascending, and the flue. Gwilt. 
Same as Throatlatch. 
To beat, or pulsate, with more than usual force or rapidity; to beat in consequence of agitation; to palpitate; -- said of the heart, pulse, etc. My heart Throbs to know one thing. Shak. Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast. Shak. 
A beat, or strong pulsation, as of the heart and arteries; a violent beating; a papitation: The IMPATIENT throbs and longings of a soul That pants and reaches after distant good. Addison. 
To struggle in extreme pain; to be in agony; to agonize. 
To put in agony. [R.] Shak. 
A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaning given by the schoolmen. Milton. Great Sire! whom thrones celestial ceaseless sing. Young. 
To be in, or sit upon, a throne; to be placed as if upon a throne. Shak. 
To crowd together; to press together into a close body, as a multitude of persons; to gather or move in multitudes. I have seen the dumb men throng to see him. Shak. 
Thronged; crowded; also, much occupied; busy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Bp. Sanderson. To the intent the sick . . . should not lie too throng. Robynson (More's Utopia). 
A thorp. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. of Thrive. 
Pain; especially, pain of travail; throe. [Obs.] Spenser. Dryden. 
Time; while; space of time; moment; trice. [Obs.] Shak. I will with Thomas speak a little throw. Chaucer. 
To cause to take a strategic position; as, he threw a detachment of his army across the river. 
To perform the act of throwing or casting; to cast; specifically, to cast dice. To throw about, to cast about; to try expedients. [R.] 
The extreme movement given to a sliding or vibrating reciprocating piece by a cam, crank, eccentric, or the like; travel; stroke; as, the throw of a slide valve. Also, frequently, the length of the radius of a crank, or the eccentricity of an eccentric; as, the throw of the crank of a steam engine is equal to half the stroke of the piston. 
A turning lathe. [Prov. Eng.] 
a. & p. p. from Throw, v. Thrown silk, silk thread consisting of two or more singles twisted together like a rope, in a direction contrary to that in which the singles of which it is composed are twisted. M'Culloch. -- Thrown singles, silk thread or cord made by three processes of twisting, first into singles, two or more of which are twisted together making dumb singles, and several of these twisted together to make thrown singles. 
Through. [Ref. spelling.] 
A threadlike part of a flower; a stamen. 
To insert short pieces of rope-yarn or spun yarn in; as, to thrum a piece of canvas, or a mat, thus making a rough or tufted surface. Totten. 
Having the anthers raised above the stigma, and visible at the throat of the corolla, as in long-stamened primroses; -- the reverse of pin-eyed. 
Any one of numerous species of singing birds belonging to Turdus and allied genera. They are noted for the sweetness of their songs. 
An affection of the mouth, fauces, etc., common in newly born children, characterized by minute ulcers called aphthæ. See Aphthæ. 
Thrist. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The force or pressure of one part of a construction against other parts; especially (Arch.), a horizontal or diagonal outward pressure, as of an arch against its abutments, or of rafters against the wall which support them. 
Thrice. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A dull sound without resonance, like that produced by striking with, or striking against, some comparatively soft substance; also, the stroke or blow producing such sound; as, the thrud of a cannon ball striking the earth. At every new thud of the blast, a sob arose. Jeffrey. At intervals there came some tremendous thud on the side of the steamer. C. Mackay. 
One of an association of robbers and murderers in India who practiced murder by stealthy approaches, and from religious motives. They have been nearly exterminated by the British government. 
A genus of evergreen trees, thickly branched, remarkable for the distichous arrangement of their branches, and having scalelike, closely imbricated, or compressed leaves. [Written also thuya.] See Thyine wood. 
The name given by ancient geographers to the northernmost part of the habitable world. According to some, this land was Norway, according to others, Iceland, or more probably Mainland, the largest of the Shetland islands; hence, the Latin phrase ultima Thule, farthest Thule. 
Oxide of thulium. 
The short, thick first digit of the human hand, differing from the other fingers in having but two phalanges; the pollex. See Pollex. Upon his thumb he had of gold a ring. Chaucer. Thumb band, a twist of anything as thick as the thumb. Mortimer. -- Thumb blue, indigo in the form of small balls or lumps, used by washerwomen to blue linen, and the like. -- Thumb latch, a door latch having a lever formed to be pressed by the thumb. -- Thumb mark. (a) The mark left by the impression of a thumb, as on the leaves of a book. Longfellow. (b) The dark spot over each foot in finely bred black and tan terriers. -- Thumb nut, a nut for a screw, having wings to grasp between the thumb and fingers in turning it; also, a nut with a knurled rim for the same perpose. -- Thumb ring, a ring worn on the thumb. Shak. -- Thumb stall. (a) A kind of thimble or ferrule of iron, or leather, for protecting the thumb in making sails, and in other work. (b) (Mil.) A buckskin cushion worn on the thumb, and used to close the vent of a cannon while it is sponged, or loaded. -- Under one's thumb, completely under one's power or influence; in a condition of subservience. [Colloq.] 
To play with the thumb or thumbs; to play clumsily; to thrum. 
To strike or beat with something thick or heavy, or so as to cause a dull sound. These bastard Bretons; whom our hathers Have in their own land beaten, bobbed, and thumped. Shak. 
To give a thump or thumps; to strike or fall with a heavy blow; to pound. A watchman at midnight thumps with his pole. Swift. 
The tunny. [R.] 
Through. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To cut through, as a partition between one working and another. 
The ruins of the fallen roof resulting from the removal of the pillars and stalls. Raymond. 
The commoner kind of frankincense, or that obtained from the Norway spruce, the long-leaved pine, and other conifers. 
See Tussock. [Obs.] 
Same as Thuja. 
A substance extracted from trees of the genus Thuja, or Thuya, and probably identical with quercitrin. [Written also thujin.] 
A heavy blow with something flat or heavy; a thump. With many a stiff thwack, many a bang, Hard crab tree and old iron rang. Hudibras. 
Thwartly; obliquely; transversely; athwart. [Obs.] Milton. 
Across; athwart. Spenser. Thwart ships. See Athwart ships, under Athwart. 
A seat in an open boat reaching from one side to the other, or athwart the boat. 
A disease in sheep, indicated by shaking, trembling, or convulsive motions. 
To cut or clip with a knife; to whittle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. 
Of thee, or belonging to thee; the more common form of thine, possessive case of thou; -- used always attributively, and chiefly in the solemn or grave style, and in poetry. Thine is used in the predicate; as, the knife is thine. See Thine. Our father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. Matt. vi. 9,10. These are thy glorious works, Parent of good. Milton. 
Any plant of the labiate genus Thymus. The garden thyme (Thymus vulgaris) is a warm, pungent aromatic, much used to give a relish to seasoning and soups. Ankle deep in moss and flowery thyme. Cowper. Cat thyme, a labiate plant (Teucrium Marum) of the Mediterranean religion. Cats are said to be fond of rolling on it. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). -- Wild thyme, Thymus Serpyllum, common on banks and hillsides in Europe. I know a bank where the wild thyme blows. Shak. 
Of or pertaining to the thymus gland. 
Pertaining to, or derived from, thyme; as, thymic acid. 
A phenol derivative of cymene, C10H13.OH, isomeric with carvacrol, found in oil of thyme, and extracted as a white crystalline substance of a pleasant aromatic odor and strong antiseptic properties; -- called also hydroxy cymene. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, the thymus gland. -- n. 
Abounding with thyme; fragrant; as, a thymy vale. Akenside. Where'er a thymy bank he found, He rolled upon the fragrant ground. Gay. 
A thyrsus. 
A common clearwing moth (Hemaris thysbe). 
A tiara. [Poetic] Milton. Tennyson. 
Adorned with, or wearing, a tiara. 
The inner, or preaxial, and usually the larger, of the two bones of the leg or hind limb below the knee. 
A tibial bone; a tibiale. 
The pollack. [Prov. Eng.] 
A local and habitual convulsive motion of certain muscles; especially, such a motion of some of the muscles of the face; twitching; velication; -- called also spasmodic tic. Dunglison. Tic douloureux (. Etym: [F., fr. tic a knack, a twitching + douloureux painful.] (Med.) Neuralgia in the face; face ague. See under Face. 
To entice. [Obs.] The Coronation. 
A ball bowled to strike the ground about a bat's length in front of the wicket. 
Credit; trust; as, to buy on, or upon, tick. 
The whinchat; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] Death tick. (Zoöl.) See Deathwatch. 
To check off by means of a tick or any small mark; to score. When I had got all my responsibilities down upon my list, I compared each with the bill and ticked it off. Dickens. 
See Ticking. [R.] R. Browning. 
One who, or that which, ticks, or produces a ticking sound, as a watch or clock, a telegraphic sounder, etc. Ticker tape Tape from or designed to be used in a stock ticker, usu. of paper and being narrow but long. -- Stock ticker, an electro-mechanical information receiving device connected by telegraphic wire to a stock exchange, and which prints out the latest transactions or news on stock exchanges, commonly found in the offices of stock brokers. By 1980 largely superseded by electronic stock quotation devices. ticker tape parade A parade to honor a person, held in New York City, during which people in the tall buildings of Manhattan throw large quantities of paper, confetti, paper ribbons, or the like onto the parading group. The name comes form the ticker tape originally thrown onto the parade when it passed stockbrokers' offices in lower Manhattan, before stock tickers became obsolete. 
A small piece of paper, cardboard, or the like, serving as a notice, certificate, or distinguishing token of something. Specifically: -- (a) A little note or notice. [Obs. or Local] He constantly read his lectures twice a week for above forty years, giving notice of the time to his auditors in a ticket on the school doors. Fuller. 
A periodical sale of ore in the English mining districts; -- so called from the tickets upon which are written the bids of the buyers. 
Uncertain; inconstant; slippery. [Obs. & R.] Beau. & Fl. 
Tender; soft; nice; -- now only used in tidbit. 
Of or pertaining to tides; caused by tides; having tides; periodically rising and falling, or following and ebbing; as, tidal waters. The tidal wave of deeper souls Into our inmost being rolls, And lifts us unawares Out of all meaner cares. Longfellow. Tidal air (Physiol.), the air which passes in and out of the lungs in ordinary breathing. It varies from twenty to thirty cubic inches. -- Tidal basin, a dock that is filled at the rising of the tide. -- Tidal wave. (a) See Tide wave, under Tide. Cf. 4th Bore. (b) A vast, swift wave caused by an earthquake or some extraordinary combination of natural causes. It rises far above high-water mark and is often very destructive upon low-lying coasts. 
A delicate or tender piece of anything eatable; a delicious morsel. [Written also titbit.] 
imp. of Tide, v. i. Chaucer. 
The period of twelve hours. Atmospheric tides, tidal movements of the atmosphere similar to those of the ocean, and produced in the same manner by the attractive forces of the sun and moon. -- Inferior tide. See under Inferior, a. -- To work double tides. See under Work, v. t. -- Tide day, the interval between the occurrences of two consecutive maxima of the resultant wave at the same place. Its length varies as the components of sun and moon waves approach to, or recede from, one another. A retardation from this cause is called the lagging of the tide, while the acceleration of the recurrence of high water is termed the priming of the tide. See Lag of the tide, under 2d Lag. -- Tide dial, a dial to exhibit the state of the tides at any time. -- Tide gate. (a) An opening through which water may flow freely when the tide sets in one direction, but which closes automatically and prevents the water from flowing in the other direction. (b) (Naut.) A place where the tide runs with great velocity, as through a gate. -- Tide gauge, a gauge for showing the height of the tide; especially, a contrivance for registering the state of the tide continuously at every instant of time. Brande & C. -- Tide lock, a lock situated between an inclosed basin, or a canal, and the tide water of a harbor or river, when they are on different levels, so that craft can pass either way at all times of the tide; - - called also guard lock. -- Tide mill. (a) A mill operated by the tidal currents. (b) A mill for clearing lands from tide water. -- Tide rip, a body of water made rough by the conflict of opposing tides or currents. -- Tide table, a table giving the time of the rise and fall of the tide at any place. -- Tide water, water affected by the flow of the tide; hence, broadly, the seaboard. -- Tide wave, or Tidal wave, the swell of water as the tide moves. That of the ocean is called primitive; that of bays or channels derivative. Whewell. -- Tide wheel, a water wheel so constructed as to be moved by the ebb or flow of the tide. 
To cause to float with the tide; to drive or carry with the tide or stream. They are tided down the stream. Feltham. 
To work into or out of a river or harbor by drifting with the tide and anchoring when it becomes adverse. 
Affected by the tide; having a tide. "The tided Thames." Bp. Hall. 
The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 
In a tidy manner. 
Tidings. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A discourse or treatise upon the tides; that part of science which treats of tides. J. S. Mill. 
The wren; -- called also tiddy. [Prov. Eng.] The tidy for her notes as delicate as they. Drayton. 
To put in proper order; to make neat; as, to tidy a room; to tidy one's dress. 
To make things tidy. [Colloq.] I have tidied and tidied over and over again. Dickens. 
A beam or rod for holding two parts together; in railways, one of the transverse timbers which support the track and keep it in place. 
To unite, as notes, by a cross line, or by a curved line, or slur, drawn over or under them. 
To make a tie; to make an equal score. 
A flat bar used as a tie. 
In Cuba, Mexico, etc., a booth, stall, or shop where merchandise is sold. 
One who, or that which, ties. 
A chold's apron covering the upper part of the body, and tied with tape or cord; a pinafore. [Written also tire.] 
A row or rank, especially one of two or more rows placed one above, or higher than, another; as, a tier of seats in a theater. Tiers of a cable, the ranges of fakes, or windings, of a cable, laid one within another when coiled. 
The third tone of the scale. See Mediant. 
Divided into three equal parts of three different tinctures; -- said of an escutcheon. 
A wig having a tie or ties, or one having some of the curls tied up; also, a wig tied upon the head. Wright. V. Knox. 
To be in a pet. She tiffed with Tim, she ran from Ralph. Landor. 
To deck out; to dress. [Obs.] A. Tucker. 
A lunch, or slight repast between breakfast and dinner; -- originally, a Provincial English word, but introduced into India, and brought back to England in a special sense. 
A fit of pettishness, or slight anger; a tiff. After all your fatigue you seem as ready for a tift with me as if you had newly come from church. Blackwood's Mag. 
That part of an embryo which represents the young stem; the caulicle or radicle. 
A siliceous stone of a yellow color and chatoyant luster, obtained in South Africa and much used for ornament. It is an altered form of the mineral crocidolite. See Crocidolite. 
A close, or inclosure; a croft. [Obs.] Cowell. 
p. p. of Tie. Spenser. 
Pressing; stringent; not easy; firmly held; dear; -- said of money or the money market. Cf. Easy, 7. 
To tighten. [Obs.] 
Close-fitting garments, especially for the lower part of the body and the legs. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7CO2H (called also methyl crotonic acid), homologous with crotonic acid, and obtained from croton oil (from Croton Tiglium) as a white crystalline substance. 
A tick. See 2d Tick. [Obs.] 
A starch or arrow-root made from the tubes of an East Indian zinziberaceous plant (Curcuma angustifolia); also, the plant itself. 
The bulau. 
See Till. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The accentual mark placed over n, and sometimes over l, in Spanish words [thus, ñ, l], indicating that, in pronunciation, the sound of the following vowel is to be preceded by that of the initial, or consonantal, y. 
To protect from the intrusion of the uninitiated; as, to tile a Masonic lodge. 
A small, flat piece of dried earth or earthenware, used to cover vessels in which metals are fused. 
To drain by means of tiles; to furnish with a tile drain. 
A man whose occupation is to cover buildings with tiles. Bancroft. 
A doorkeeper or attendant at a lodge of Freemasons. [Written also tyler.] 
A place where tiles are made or burned; a tile kiln. 
A genus of trees, the lindens, the type of the family Tiliaceæ, distinguished by the winglike bract coalescent with the peduncle, and by the indehiscent fruit having one or two seeds. There are about twenty species, natives of temperate regions.  Many species are planted as ornamental shade trees, and the tough fibrous inner bark is a valuable article of commerce. Also, a plant of this genus. 
A vetch; a tare. [Prov. Eng.] 
A drawer. Specifically: (a) A tray or drawer in a chest. (b) A money drawer in a shop or store. Till alarm, a device for sounding an alarm when a money drawer is opened or tampered with. 
A deposit of clay, sand, and gravel, without lamination, formed in a glacier valley by means of the waters derived from the melting glaciers; -- sometimes applied to alluvium of an upper river terrace, when not laminated, and appearing as if formed in the same manner. 
To; unto; up to; as far as; until; -- now used only in respect to time, but formerly, also, of place, degree, etc., and still so used in Scotland and in parts of England and Ireland; as, I worked till four o'clock; I will wait till next week. He . . . came till an house. Chaucer. Women, up till this Cramped under worse than South-sea-isle taboo. Tennyson. Similar sentiments will recur to every one familiar with his writings -- all through them till the very end. Prof. Wilson. Till now, to the present time. -- Till then, to that time. 
As far as; up to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; that is, to the time specified in the sentence or clause following; until. And said unto them, Occupy till I come. Luke xix. 13. Mediate so long till you make some act of prayer to God. Jer. Taylor. There was no outbreak till the regiment arrived. Macaulay. 
To cultivate land. Piers Plowman. 
One who tills; a husbandman; a cultivator; a plowman. 
To put forth new shoots from the root, or round the bottom of the original stalk; as, wheat or rye tillers; some spread plants by tillering. [Sometimes written tillow.] 
A lever of wood or metal fitted to the rudder head and used for turning side to side in steering. In small boats hand power is used; in large vessels, the tiller is moved by means of mechanical appliances. See Illust. of Rudder. Cf. 2d Helm, 1. 
A bag made of thin glazed muslin, used as a wrapper for dress goods. McElrath. 
See 3d Tiller. 
Floccillation. 
A cloth cover of a boat; a small canopy or awning extended over the sternsheets of a boat. Tilt boat (Naut.), a boat covered with canvas or other cloth. -- Tilt roof (Arch.), a round-headed roof, like the canopy of a wagon. 
To cover with a tilt, or awning. 
A tilted hammer; a heavy hammer, used in iron works, which is lifted or tilted by projections or wipers on a revolving shaft; a trip hammer. 
The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 
A kettledrum. See Tymbal. 
A certain quantity of fur skins, as of martens, ermines, sables, etc., packed between boards; being in some cases forty skins, in others one hundred and twenty; -- called also timmer. [Written also timbre.] 
The crest on a coat of arms. [Written also timbre.] 
To surmount as a timber does. [Obs.] 
A rib, or a curving piece of wood, branching outward from the keel and bending upward in a vertical direction. One timber is composed of several pieces united. Timber and room. (Shipbuilding) Same as Room and space. See under Room. -- Timber beetle (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of beetles the larvæ of which bore in timber; as, the silky timber beetle (Lymexylon sericeum). -- Timber doodle (Zoöl.), the American woodcock. [Local, U.S.] -- Timber grouse (Zoöl.), any species of grouse that inhabits woods, as the ruffed grouse and spruce partridge; -- distinguished from prairie grouse. -- Timber hitch (Naut.), a kind of hitch used for temporarily marking fast a rope to a spar. See Illust. under Hitch. -- Timber mare, a kind of instrument upon which soldiers were formerly compelled to ride for punishment. Johnson. -- Timber scribe, a metal tool or pointed instrument for marking timber. Simmonds. -- Timber sow. (Zoöl.) Same as Timber worm, below. Bacon. -- Timber tree, a tree suitable for timber. -- Timber worm (Zoöl.), any larval insect which burrows in timber. -- Timber yard, a yard or place where timber is deposited. 
To furnish with timber; -- chiefly used in the past participle. His bark is stoutly timbered. Shak. 
To make a nest. 
See 1st Timber. 
The crest on a coat of arms. 
Tense. 
Seasonable; timely; sufficiently early. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 
Early; soon; in good season. Timely advised, the coming evil shun. Prior. Thanks to you, That called me timelier than my purpose hither, For I have gained by it. Shak. 
A timekeeper; especially, a watch by which small intervals of time can be measured; a kind of stop watch. It is used for timing the speed of horses, machinery, etc. 
Wanting courage to meet danger; easily frightened; timorous; not bold; fearful; shy. Poor is the triumph o'er the timid hare. Thomson. 
A performer who keeps good time. 
Same as 1st Timber. [Scot.] 
Timely; seasonable. [Obs.] Bacon. -- Tim"ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] 
An elementary substance found as an oxide in the mineral cassiterite, and reduced as a soft white crystalline metal, malleable at ordinary temperatures, but brittle when heated. It is not easily oxidized in the air, and is used chiefly to coat iron to protect it from rusting, in the form of tin foil with mercury to form the reflective surface of mirrors, and in solder, bronze, speculum metal, and other alloys. Its compounds are designated as stannous, or stannic. Symbol Sn (Stannum). Atomic weight 117.4. 
To cover with tin or tinned iron, or to overlay with tin foil. 
Crude native borax, formerly imported from Thibet. It was once the chief source of boric compounds. Cf. Borax. 
Tined; tinged. [Archaic] Spenser. 
Color; tinge; tincture; tint. [Archaic] "Blue of heaven's own tinct." Shak. All the devices blazoned on the shield, In their own tinct. Tennyson. 
To color or stain; to imblue; to tint. [Archaic] Bacon. 
To kindle. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. 
Something very inflammable, used for kindling fire from a spark, as scorched linen. German tinder. Same as Amadou. -- Tinder box, a box in which tinder is kept. 
Trouble; distress; teen. [Obs.] "Cruel winter's tine." Spenser. 
To kindle; to set on fire. [Obs.] See Tind. "To tine the cloven wood." Dryden. Coals of contention and hot vegneance tind. Spenser. 
To kindle; to rage; to smart. [Obs.] Ne was there slave, ne was there medicine That mote recure their wounds; so inly they did tine. Spenser. 
To shut in, or inclose. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A tooth, or spike, as of a fork; a prong, as of an antler. 
A name applied to various skin diseases, but especially to ringworm. See Ringworm, and Sycosis. 
Any species of Tinea, or of the family Tineidæ, which includes numerous small moths, many of which are injurious to woolen and fur goods and to cultivated plants. Also used adjectively. 
Furnished with tines; as, a three-tined fork. 
Same as Tinean. 
Brushwood and thorns for making and repairing hedges. [Obs. Eng.] 
A sharp sound, as of a bell; a tinkling. 
To sound or ring, as a bell; to tinkle. [R.] Holland. 
The apartment in a Chinese temple where the idol is kept. 
To imbue or impregnate with something different or foreign; as, to tinge a decoction with a bitter taste; to affect in some degree with the qualities of another substance, either by mixture, or by application to the surface; especially, to color slightly; to stain; as, to tinge a blue color with red; an infusion tinged with a yellow color by saffron. His [Sir Roger's] virtues, as well as imperfections, are tinged by a certain extravagance. Addison. 
A degree, usually a slight degree, of some color, taste, or something foreign, infused into another substance or mixture, or added to it; tincture; color; dye; hue; shade; taste. His notions, too, respecting the government of the state, took a tinge from his notions respecting the government of the church. Macaulay. 
One who, or that which, tinges. 
Of or pertaining to the genus Tingis. 
A genus of small hemipterous insects which injure trees by sucking the sap from the leaves. See Illustration in Appendix. 
To make a sharp, shrill noise; to tinkle. Wyclif (1 Cor. xiii. 1). 
A sharp, quick sound; a tinkle. 
A small mortar on the end of a staff. 
To mend or solder, as metal wares; hence, more generally, to mend. 
To busy one's self in mending old kettles, pans, etc.; to play the tinker; to be occupied with small mechanical works. 
To cause to clonk, or make small, sharp, quick sounds. 
A small, sharp, quick sound, as that made by striking metal. Cowper. 
A manufacturer of tin vessels; a dealer in tinware. 
Made or consisting of tin. [Obs.] 
Emitting a clear sound. [Obs.] 
Pertaining to, abounding with, or resembling, tin. "The tinny strand." Drayton. 
Showy to excess; gaudy; specious; superficial. "Tinsel trappings." Milton. 
To adorn with tinsel; to deck out with cheap but showy ornaments; to make gaudy. She, tinseled o'er in robes of varying hues. Pope. 
A slight coloring. Specifically: -- (a) A pale or faint tinge of any color. Or blend in beauteous tints the colored mass. Pope. Their vigor sickens, and their tints decline. Harte. 
To give a slight coloring to; to tinge. 
The wren. [Prov. Eng.] 
A red Madeira wine, wanting the high aroma of the white sorts, and, when old, resembling tawny port. 
Very small; little; puny. When that I was and a little tiny boy. Shak. 
A piece of stiffened lining pasted on the inside of a hat crown. 
To form a point upon; to cover the tip, top, or end of; as, to tip anything with gold or silver. With truncheon tipped with iron head. Hudibras. Tipped with jet, Fair ermines spotless as the snows they press. Thomson. 
To fall on, or incline to, one side. Bunyan. To tip off, to fall off by tipping. 
A cart so constructed that the body can be easily tipped, in order to dump the load. 
A game in which a small piece of wood pointed at both ends, called a cat, is tipped, or struck with a stick or bat, so as to fly into the air. In the middle of a game at tipcat, he paused, and stood staring wildly upward with his stick in his hand. Macaulay. 
A kind of ale brewed with brackish water obtained from a particular well; -- so called from the first brewer of it, one Thomas Tipper. [Eng.] 
A distinct articulation given in playing quick notes on the flute, by striking the tongue against the roof of the mouth; double- tonguing. 
To drink spirituous or strong liquors habitually; to indulge in the frequent and improper used of spirituous liquors; especially, to drink frequently in small quantities, but without absolute drunkeness. Few of those who were summoned left their homes, and those few generally found it more agreeable to tipple in alehouses than to pace the streets. Macaulay. 
Liquor taken in tippling; drink. Pulque, the national tipple of Mexico. S. B. Griffin. 
The end, or tip, of the toe. He must . . . stand on his typtoon [tiptoes]. Chaucer. Upon his tiptoes stalketh stately by. Spenser. To be, or To stand, a tiptoe or on tiptoe, to be awake or alive to anything; to be roused; to be eager or alert; as, to be a tiptoe with expectation. 
To step or walk on tiptoe. 
The highest or utmost degree; the best of anything. [Colloq.] 
Very excellent; most excellent; perfect. [Colloq.] "Four tiptop voices." Gray. "Sung in a tiptop manner." Goldsmith. 
Any one of many species of long-legged dipterous insects belonging to Tipula and allied genera. They have long and slender bodies. See Crane fly, under Crane. 
A declamatory strain or flight of censure or abuse; a rambling invective; an oration or harangue abounding in censorious and bitter language. Here he delivers a violent tirade against persons who profess to know anything about angels. Quarterly Review. 
A tier, row, or rank. See Tier. [Obs.] In posture to displode their second tire Of thunder. Milton. 
A hoop or band, as of metal, on the circumference of the wheel of a vehicle, to impart strength and receive the wear. 
To adorn; to attire; to dress. [Obs.] [Jezebel] painted her face, and tired her head. 2 Kings ix. 30. 
To become weary; to be fatigued; to have the strength fail; to have the patience exhausted; as, a feeble person soon tires. 
To exhaust the strength of, as by toil or labor; to exhaust the patience of; to wear out (one's interest, attention, or the like); to weary; to fatigue; to jade. Shak. Tired with toil, all hopes of safety past. Dryden. To tire out, to weary or fatigue to exhaustion; to harass. 
Weary; fatigued; exhausted. 
The oyster catcher. [Prov. Eng.] 
Same as Tyro. 
A word from the vocabulary of Mrs. Quickly, the hostess in Shakespeare's Henry IV., probably meaning terror. 
The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Ptisan. 
The fireplace at the side of an annealing oven. Knight. 
Consumption; phthisis. See Phthisis. 
The seventh month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of September with a part of October. 
One of the elementary materials or fibres, having a uniform structure and a specialized function, of which ordinary animals and plants are composed; a texture; as, epithelial tissue; connective tissue. 
To form tissue of; to interweave. Covered with cloth of gold tissued upon blue. Bacon. 
Titanic. The Titan physical difficulties of his enterprise. I. Taylor. 
Same as Tidbit. 
Tight; nimble. [Obs.] Of a good stirring strain too, she goes tith. Beau. & Fl. 
Tenth. [Obs.] Every tithe soul, 'mongst many thousand. Shak. 
To levy a tenth part on; to tax to the amount of a tenth; to pay tithes on. Ye tithe mint and rue. Luke xi. 42. 
Tp pay tithes. [R.] Tusser. 
A number or company of ten householders who, dwelling near each other, were sureties or frankpledges to the king for the good behavior of each other; a decennary. Blackstone. 
Tightly; nimbly. [Obs.] "I have seen him trip it tithly." Beau. & Fl. 
Same as Teetee. 
The panel for the name, between the bands of the back of a book. 
To call by a title; to name; to entitle. Hadrian, having quieted the island, took it for honor to be titled on his coin, "The Restorer of Britain." Milton. 
Having or bearing a title. 
A large truncated cone of refined sugar. 
The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 
To laugh with the tongue striking against the root of the upper teeth; to laugh with restraint, or without much noise; to giggle. A group of tittering pages ran before. Longfellow. 
A restrained laugh. "There was a titter of . . . delight on his countenance." Coleridge. 
To seesaw. See Teeter. 
A particle; a minute part; a jot; an iota. It is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail. Luke xvi. 17. Every tittle of this prophecy is most exactly verified. South. 
To behave or move in a lively or restless manner, as an impatient horse; to caper; to prance; to frisk.  Kipling. 
The act of tittuping; lively, gay, or restless behavior or gait; a prance or caper. [Written also titup.] 
A little teat; a nipple. [Familiar] 
A kind of ocher which is used in some parts of England in marking sheep. [Prov. Eng.] 
To mark with tiver. [Prov. Eng.] 
A game resembling bagatelle, played on a special oblong board or table (Tivoli board or table), which has a curved upper end, a set of numbered compartments at the lower end, side alleys, and the surface studded with pins and sometimes furnished with numbered depressions or cups. 
With great speed; -- a huntsman's word or sound. Dryden. 
See Ulexite. 
The separation of the parts of a compound word by the intervention of one or more words; as, in what place soever, for whatsoever place. 
Any one of numerous species of batrachians belonging to the genus Bufo and allied genera, especially those of the family Bufonidæ. Toads are generally terrestrial in their habits except during the breeding season, when they seek the water. Most of the species burrow beneath the earth in the daytime and come forth to feed on insects at night. Most toads have a rough, warty skin in which are glands that secrete an acrid fluid. 
To fawn upon with mean sycophancy. 
a. & n. from Toast, v. Toasting fork, a long-handled fork for toasting bread, cheese, or the like, by the fire. 
The handle of a joiner's plane. Knight. 
A kind of inferior cigar of a long slender shape, tapered at one end. [Local, U. S.] 
A stout twilled silk used for dresses. 
A book of the Apocrypha. 
A small jug, pitcher, or mug, generally used for ale, shaped somewhat like a stout man, with a cocked hat forming the brim. 
Dowry brought by a bride to her husband. [Scot.] Burns. 
A spotted lizard native of India. 
A toucan (Ramphastos toco) having a very large beak. See Illust. under Toucan. 
An alarm bell, or the ringing of a bell for the purpose of alarm. The loud tocsin tolled their last alarm. Campbell. 
To weigh; to yield in tods. [Obs.] 
To walk with short, tottering steps, as a child. 
A toddling walk. Trollope. 
Bustle; stir; commotion; ado. [Colloq.] 
Any one of several species of small insectivorous West Indian birds of the genus Todus. They are allied to the kingfishers. 
One of the terminal members, or digits, of the foot of a man or an animal. "Each one, tripping on his toe." Shak. 
To touch or reach with the toes; to come fully up to; as, to toe the mark. 
To hold or carry the toes (in a certain way). To toe in, to stand or carry the feet in such a way that the toes of either foot incline toward the other. -- To toe out, to have the toes of each foot, in standing or walking, incline from the other foot. toe in, to align the front wheels so that they point slightly toward each other. 
Having the end secured by nails driven obliquely, said of a board, plank, or joist serving as a brace, and in general of any part of a frame secured to other parts by diagonal nailing. 
A fop; a beau; a swell. [Slang, Eng.]  Kipling. 
A place where a messuage has once stood; the site of a burnt or decayed house. 
Tufa. See under Tufa, and Toph. 
To put toggery, or togs, on; to dress; -- usually with out, implying care, elaborateness, or the like. [Colloq. or Slang] Harper's Weekly. 
The loose outer garment worn by the ancient Romans, consisting of a single broad piece of woolen cloth of a shape approaching a semicircle. It was of undyed wool, except the border of the toga prætexta. Toga prætexta. Etym: [L.], a toga with a broad purple border, worn by children of both sexes, by magistrates, and by persons engaged in sacred rites. -- Toga virilis Etym: [L.], the manly gown; the common toga. This was assumed by Roman boys about the time of completing their fourteenth year. 
Togated. [Obs. or R.] Shak. 
A wooden pin tapering toward both ends with a groove around its middle, fixed transversely in the eye of a rope to be secured to any other loop or bight or ring; a kind of button or frog capable of being readily engaged and disengaged for temporary purposes. 
Taut. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Clothes; garments; toggery. [Colloq. or Slang] 
The namaycush. 
To hew in pieces. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A net or snare; any thread, web, or string spread for taking prey; -- usually in the plural. As a Numidian lion, when first caught, Endures the toil that holds him. Denham. Then toils for beasts, and lime for birds, were found. Dryden. 
To exert strength with pain and fatigue of body or mind, especially of the body, with efforts of some continuance or duration; to labor; to work. 
Labor with pain and fatigue; labor that oppresses the body or mind, esp. the body. My task of servile toil. Milton. After such bloody toil, we bid good night. Shak. 
One who toils, or labors painfully. 
See Toilet, 3. 
An old measure of length in France, containing six French feet, or about 6.3946 French feet. 
A sheep's fleece. 
A grape of an oval shape and whitish color. 
A livid spot upon the body, indicating, or supposed to indicate, the approach of death. [Obs.] Like the fearful tokens of the plague, Are mere forerunners of their ends. Beau. & Fl. 
To betoken. [Obs.] Shak. 
A tocsin. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
To take away. See Toll. 
A weight of British India. The standard tola is equal to 180 grains. 
A hydrocarbon, C14H10, related both to the acetylene and the aromatic series, and produced artificially as a white crystalline substance; -- called also diphenyl acetylene. 
imp. & p. p. of Tell. 
To draw, or cause to follow, by displaying something pleasing or desirable; to allure by some bait. [Written also toll.] Whatever you observe him to be more frighted at then he should, tole him on to by insensible degrees, till at last he masters the difficulty. 
A sword or sword blade made at Toledo in Spain, which city was famous in the 16th and 17th centuries for the excellence of its weapons. 
To take away; to vacate; to annul. 
To cause to sound, as a bell, with strokes slowly and uniformly repeated; as, to toll the funeral bell. "The sexton tolled the bell." Hood. 
To sound or ring, as a bell, with strokes uniformly repeated at intervals, as at funerals, or in calling assemblies, or to announce the death of a person. The country cocks do crow, the clocks do toll. Shak. Now sink in sorrows with a tolling bell. Pope. 
The sound of a bell produced by strokes slowly and uniformly repeated. 
A liberty to buy and sell within the bounds of a manor. 
To collect, as a toll. Shak. 
A toll gatherer. "Tollers in markets." Piers Plowman. 
One who tolls a bell. 
See Dolmen. 
A tollbooth; also, a merchants' meeting place, or exchange. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
A writ by which a cause pending in a court baron was removed into a country court. Cowell. 
One of a race which formerly occupied Mexico. -- Tol"te*can, a. 
A fragrant balsam said to have been first brought from Santiago de Tolu, in New Granada. See Balsam of Tolu, under Balsam. Tolu tree (Bot.), a large tree (Myroxylon toluiferum), the wood of which is red in the center, and has an aromatic rose odor. It affords the balsam called tolu. 
Pertaining to, or designating, one of three metameric acids, CH3.C6H4.CO2H, which are related to toluene and analogous to benzoic acids. They are white crystalline substances, and are called respectively orthotoluic acid, metatoluic acid, and paratoluic acid. 
A complex double tolyl and toluidine derivative of glycocoll, obtained as a white crystalline substance. 
Any one of the three hypothetical radicals corresponding to the three toluic acids. 
The hydrocarbon radical, CH3.C6H4, regarded as characteristic of certain compounds of the aromatic series related to toluene; as, tolyl carbinol. 
The knave of trumps at gleek. [Obs.] 
A money of account in Persia, whose value varies greatly at different times and places. Its average value may be reckoned at about two and a half dollars. 
The fruit of a plant of the Nightshade family (Lycopersicum esculentun); also, the plant itself. The fruit, which is called also love apple, is usually of a rounded, flattened form, but often irregular in shape. It is of a bright red or yellow color, and is eaten either cooked or uncooked. Tomato gall (Zoöl.), a large gall consisting of a mass of irregular swellings on the stems and leaves of grapevines. They are yellowish green, somewhat tinged with red, and produced by the larva of a small two-winged fly (Lasioptera vitis). -- Tomato sphinx (Zoöl.), the adult or imago of the tomato worm. It closely resembles the tobacco hawk moth. Called also tomato hawk moth. See Illust. of Hawk moth. -- Tomato worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a large hawk moth (Sphinx, or Macrosila, quinquemaculata) which feeds upon the leaves of the tomato and potato plants, often doing considerable damage. Called also potato worm. 
To place in a tomb; to bury; to inter; to entomb. I tombed my brother that I might be blessed. Chapman. 
An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, and containing about 84 per cent of copper; -- called also German, or Dutch, brass. It is very malleable and ductile, and when beaten into thin leaves is sometimes called Dutch metal. The addition of arsenic makes white tombac. [Written also tombak, and tambac.] 
A romping girl; a hoiden. [Colloq.] J. Fletcher. 
A male cat, especially when full grown or of large size. 
As many writings as are bound in a volume, forming part of a larger work; a book; -- usually applied to a ponderous volume. Tomes of fable and of dream. Cowper. A more childish expedient than that to which he now resorted is not to be found in all the tomes of the casuists. Macaulay. 
The cutting edge of the bill of a bird. 
Any white regular soldier of the British army; also, such soldiers collectively; -- said to be fictitious name inserted in the models given to soldiers to guide them in filling out account blanks, etc. 
To-morrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An inking pad used in lithographic printing. 
A rude, wild, wanton girl; a hoiden; a tomboy. Dennis. 
See Tam-tam. 
pl. of Toe. Chaucer. 
The common tunny, or house mackerel. 
The prevailing fashion or mode; vogue; as, things of ton. Byron. If our people of ton are selfish, at any rate they show they are selfish. Thackeray. Bon ton. See in the Vocabulary. 
A measure of weight or quantity. Specifically: -- (a) The weight of twenty hundredweight. 
Accent, or inflection or modulation of the voice, as adapted to express emotion or passion. Eager his tone, and ardent were his eyes. Dryden. 
To bring, as a print, to a certain required shade of color, as by chemical treatment. To tone down. (a) To cause to give lower tone or sound; to give a lower tone to. (b) (Paint.) To modify, as color, by making it less brilliant or less crude; to modify, as a composition of color, by making it more harmonius. Its thousand hues toned down harmoniusly. C. Kingsley. (c) Fig.: To moderate or relax; to diminish or weaken the striking characteristics of; to soften. The best method for the purpose in hand was to employ some one of a character and position suited to get possession of their confidence, and then use it to tone down their religious strictures. Palfrey. -- To tone up, to cause to give a higher tone or sound; to give a higher tone to; to make more intense; to heighten; to strengthen. 
Having (such) a tone; -- chiefly used in composition; as, high- toned; sweet-toned. Toned paper, paper having a slight tint, in distinction from paper which is quite white. 
A drug useful in neuralgia, derived from a Fijian plant supposed to be of the aroid genus Epipremnum. 
The mangrove; -- so called in the Pacific Islands. 
An instrument, usually of metal, consisting of two parts, or long shafts, jointed together at or near one end, or united by an elastic bow, used for handling things, especially hot coals or metals; -- often called a pair of tongs. 
an organ situated in the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates and connected with the hyoid arch. 
To modulate or modify with the tongue, as notes, in playing the flute and some other wind instruments. 
To use the tongue in forming the notes, as in playing the flute and some other wind instruments. 
Ready or voluble in speaking; as, a tonguy speaker. [Written also tonguey.] [Colloq.] 
Increasing strength, or the tone of the animal system; obviating the effects of debility, and restoring heatly functions. Tononic spasm. (Med.) See the Note under Spasm. 
A tonic element or letter; a vowel or a diphthong. 
An explosive compound; a preparation of gun cotton. 
A tun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Abounding in tone or sound. 
One of the two glandular organs situated in the throat at the sides of the fauces. The tonsils are sometimes called the almonds, from their shape. 
A barber. Sir W. Scott. 
Tonicity, or tone; as, muscular tonus. 
A simpleton. L'Estrange. A pattern and companion fit For all the keeping tonies of the pit. Dryden. 
imp. of Take. 
Work perfomed with a tool. The fine tooling and delicate tracery of the cabinet artist is lost upon a building of colossal proportions. De Quincey. 
Empty. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Wyclif. 
To empty. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] 
pl. of Toe. Chaucer. 
The reddish brown wood of an East Indian tree (Cedrela Toona) closely resembling the Spanish cedar; also. the tree itself. 
To see; to spy. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 
To blow or sound a horn; to make similar noise by contact of the tongue with the root of the upper teeth at the beginning and end of the sound; also, to give forth such a sound, as a horn when blown. "A tooting horn." Howell. Tooting horns and rattling teams of mail coaches. Thackeray. 
To cause to sound, as a horn, the note being modified at the beginning and end as if by pronouncing the letter t; to blow; to sound. 
One who toots; one who plays upon a pipe or horn. B. Jonson. 
One of the hard, bony appendages which are borne on the jaws, or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates, and which usually aid in the prehension and mastication of food. 
Pain in a tooth or in the teeth; odontalgia. Toothache grass (Bot.), a kind of grass (Ctenium Americanum) having a very pungent taste. -- Toothache tree. (Bot.) (a) The prickly ash. (b) A shrub of the genus Aralia (A. spinosa). 
Toothed; with teeth. [R] Croxall. 
To toot gently, repeatedly, or continuously, on a wind instrument, as a flute; also, to make a similar noise by any means. "The tootling robin."  John Clare. 
The ringdove. [Prov. Eng.] 
A plug, or conical block of wood, with longitudital grooves on its surface, in which the strands of the rope slide in the process of twisting. 
A platform surrounding the head of the lower mast and projecting on all sudes. It serves to spead the topmast rigging, thus strengheningthe mast, and also furnishes a convenient standing place for the men aloft. Totten. 
To raise one end of, as a yard, so that that end becomes higher than the other. To top off, to complete by putting on, or finishing, the top or uppermost part of; as, to top off a stack of hay; hence, to complete; to finish; to adorn. 
The rhinocerous bird (a). 
A mineral occurring in rhombic prisms, generally yellowish and pellucid, also colorless, and of greenesh, bluish, or brownish shades. It sometimes occurs massive and opaque. It is a fluosilicate of alumina, and is used as a gem. 
A moundlike Buddhist sepulcher, or memorial monument. often erected over a Buddhish relic. 
A grove or clumb of trees; as, a toddy tope. [India] Whitworth. 
A small shark or dogfish (Galeorhinus, or Galeus, galeus), native of Europe, but found also on the coasts of California and Tasmania; -- called also toper, oil shark, miller's dog, and penny dog. 
To drink hard or frequently; to drink strong or spiritous liquors to excess. If you tope in form, and treat. Dryden. 
An ESkimo house made of material other than snow, esp. one having walls of turf, driftwood, rock, or skin, and a roof of skins of the walrus or seal. In Alaska it is often partially underground and covered with timber and turf. Topeks are also used by Indians of the lower Yukon region. 
One who topes, or drinks frequently or to excess; a drunkard; a sot. 
The European crested titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 
Full to the top, ore brim; brimfull. "Topful of direst cruelty." Shak. [He] was so topful of himself, that he let it spill on all the company. I. Watts. 
kind of sandstone. 
A place lying east or southeast of Jerusalem, in the valley of Hinnom. [Written also Topheth.] And he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the children of Hinnom. 2 Kings xxiii. 10. 
Same as Toph. 
One of the mineral concretions about the joints, and in other situations, occurring chiefly in gouty persons. They consist usually of urate of sodium; when occurring in the internal organs they are also composed of phosphate of calcium. 
An antelope (Damaliscus corrigum jimela) having a glossy purplish brown coat. It is related to the blesbok and is native of British East Africa. Also, any of various related varieties of other districts south of the Sahara. 
A treatise on forms of argument; a system or scheme of forms or commonplaces of argument or oratory; as, the Topics of Aristotle. These topics, or loci, were no other than general ideas applicable to a great many different subjects, which the orator was directed to consult. Blair. In this question by [reason] I do not mean a distinct topic, but a transcendent that runs through all topics. Jer. Taylor. 
Topical. Drayton. Holland. 
A man stationed in the top. 
A small wig for the top of the head; a toupee. 
To fall forward; to pitch or tumble down. Though castles topple on their warders' heads. Shak. 
To throw down; to overturn. He topple crags from the precipice. Longfellow. 
A variety of the bonnet monkey. 
See Toque, 1. 
To scratch to pieces. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Torque, 1. 
A light or luminary formed of some combustible substance, as of resinous wood; a large candle or flambeau, or a lamp giving a large, flaring flame. They light the nuptial torch. Milton. Torch thistle. (Bot.) See under Thistle. 
imp. of Tear. 
The dead grass that remains on mowing land in winter and spring. [Prov. Eng.] Mortimer. 
Same as Torus. 
A Turret. [Obs.] 
A ring for fastening a hawk's leash to the jesses; also, a ring affixed to the collar of a dog, etc. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
p. p. of Tear. 
Cylindrical with alternate swellings and contractions; having the surface covered with rounded prominences. 
Torose. 
Same as Torpidness. 
Tending to produce torpor. 
That which tends to produce torsion; a couple of forces. J. Thomson. 
Torridness. [R.] 
A worthless woman; also, a worthless horse. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A torsel. Knight. 
A wreath. 
A plate of timber for the end of a beam or joist to rest on. Gwilt 
The human body, as distinguished from the head and limbs; in sculpture, the trunk of a statue, mutilated of head and limbs; as, the torso of Hercules. 
Any civil wrong or injury; a wrongful act (not involving a breach of contract) for which an action will lie; a form of action, in some parts of the United States, for a wrong or injury. Executor de son tort. See under Executor. -- Tort feasor (Law), a wrongdoer; a trespasser. Wharton. 
Stretched tight; taut. [R.] Yet holds he them with tortestrein. Emerson. 
a flat heap of moist, crushed silver ore, prepared for the patio process. 
Having the appearance of a torula; in the form of a little chain; as, a torulaform string of micrococci. 
A lage molding used in the bases of columns. Its profile is semicircular. See Illust. of Molding. Brande&C. 
Stern; grim. See Torvous. [Obs.] But yesterday his breath Awed Rome, and his least torved frown was death. J. Webster (1654). 
A member of the conservative party, as opposed to the progressive party which was formerly called the Whig, and is now called the Liberal, party; an earnest supporter of exsisting royal and ecclesiastical authority. 
Of ro pertaining to the Tories. 
To tease, or comb, as wool. [Obs.or Prov. Eng.] 
Neat; trim. [Scot.] Jomieson. 
, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tossed (; (less properly Tost ); p. pr. & vb. n. Tossing.] Etym: [ W. tosiaw, tosio, to jerk, toss, snatch, tosa quick jerk, a toss, a snatch. ] 
See Tassel. 
Ohe who tosser. J. Fletcher. 
Tossing the head, as in scorn or pride; hence, proud; contemptuous; scornful; affectedly indifferent; as, a tossy commonplace. [R.] C. Kingsley. 
imp. & p. p. of Toss. 
Quick; rapid. Pui tosto ( Etym: [It.] (Mus.), faster; more rapid. 
The grivet. 
Whole; not divided; entire; full; complete; absolute; as, a total departure from the evidence; a total loss. " Total darkness." "To undergo myself the total crime." Milton. Total abstinence. See Abstinence, n., 1. -- Total depravity. (Theol.) See Original sin, under Original. 
The whole; the whole sum or amount; as, these sums added make the grand total of five millions. 
A coniferous tree (Podocarpus totara), next to the kauri the most valuable timber tree of New Zeland. Its hard reddish wood is used for furniture and building, esp. in wharves, bridges, etc. Also mahogany pine. 
To carry or bear; as, to tote a child over a stream; -- a colloquial word of the Southern States, and used esp. by negroes. 
The entire body, or all; as, the whole tote. [Colloq.] 
To tear or rend in pieces. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A rude picture, as of a bird, beast, or the like, used by the Nord American Indians as a symbolic designation, as of a family or a clan. And they painted on the grave posts Of the graves, yet unforgotten, Each his own ancestral totem Each the symbol of his household; Figures of the bear and reindeer, Of the turtle, crane, and beaver. Longfellow. The totem,the clan deity, the beast or bird who in some supernatural way attends tothe clan and watches over it. Bagehot. 
The stone roller. See Stone roller (a), under Stone. 
One who totters. 
To walk in a wavering, unsteady manner; to toddle; to topple. [Colloq.] 
Unsteady; dizzy; tottery. [Obs.or Prov. Eng.] Sir W. Scott. For yet his noule [head] was totty of the must. Spenser. 
Totty. [Obs.] My head is totty of my swink to-night. Chaucer. 
A sailor or fisherman;-so called in some parts of the Pacific. 
Any one of numerous species of fruit-eating birds of tropical America belonging to Ramphastos, Pteroglossus, and allied genera of the family Ramphastidæ. They have a very large, but light and thin, beak, often nearly as long as the body itself. Most of the species are brilliantly colored with red, yellow, white, and black in striking contrast. 
To be tangent to. See Tangent, a. 
To be brought, as a sail, so close to the wind that its weather leech shakes. To touch and go (Naut.), to touch bottom lightly and without damage, as a vessel in motion. -- To touch at, to come or go to, without tarrying; as, the ship touched at Lisbon. -- To touch on or upon, to come or go to for a short time. [R.] I made a little voyage round the lake, and touched on the several towns that lie on its coasts. Addison. 
The sense by which pressure or traction exerted on the skin is recognized; the sense by which the properties of bodies are determined by contact; the tactile sense. See Tactile sense, under Tactile. The spider's touch, how exquisitely fine. Pope. 
Peevish; irritable; irascible; techy; apt to take fire. [Colloq.] It may be said of Dryden that he was at no time touchy about personal attacks. Saintsbury. 
See Tough-pitch (b). 
The wood warbler. [Prov. Eng.] 
A tower. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
anything done successively, or by regular order; a turn; as, a tour of duty. 
To make a tourm; as, to tour throught a country. T. Hughes. 
The sheriff's turn, or court. 
A pulling; a disturbance. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Same as Tousle. [Colloq.] 
One who touses. [Prov. Eng.] 
To put into disorder; to tumble; to touse. [Colloq.] 
Tousled; tangled; rough; shaggy. [Colloq.] 
One who secretly watches race horses which are in course of training, to get information about their capabilities, for use in betting. [Cant. Eng.] 
To toot a horn. 
The anus. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who seeks customers, as for an inn, a public conveyance, shops, and the like: hence, an obtrusive candidate for office. [Colloq.] The prey of ring droppers, . . . duffers, touters, or any of those bloodless sharpers who are, perhaps, better known to the police. Dickens. 
See Touse. [Prov. Eng.] 
The coarse and broken part of flax or hemp, separated from the finer part by the hatchel or swingle. 
To draw or pull through the water, as a vessel of any kind, by means of a rope. 
A towel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The quality or state of being towardly; docility; tractableness. The beauty and towardliness of these children moved her brethren to envy. Sir W. Raleigh. 
A cloth used for wiping, especially one used for drying anything wet, as the person after a bath. Towel gourd (Bot.), the fruit of the cucurbitaceous plant Luffa Ægyptiaca; also, the plant itself. The fruit is very fibrous, and, when separated from its rind and seeds, is used as a sponge or towel. Called also Egyptian bath sponge, and dishcloth. 
To beat with a stick. [Prov. Eng.] 
To rise and overtop other objects; to be lofty or very high; hence, to soar. On the other side an high rock towered still. Spenser. My lord protector's hawks do tower so well. Shak. 
To soar into. [Obs.] Milton. 
Having towers; adorned or defended by towers. [R.] "Towery cities." Pope. 
The chewink. 
A town officer who makes proclamations to the people; the public crier of a town. 
Having towns; containing many towns. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 
A familiar name for a dog. [ Written also Towzer. ] 
Composed of, or like, tow. 
An altered form of a toxin, possessing little or no toxic power. 
A headdress of linen or woolen, that hangs down over the shoulders, worn by old women of the lower classes; -- called also toy mutch. [Scot.] "Having, moreover, put on her clean toy, rokelay, and scarlet plaid." Sir W. Scott. 
To dally amorously; to trifle; to play. To toy, to wanton, dally, smile and jest. Shak. 
To treat foolishly. [Obs.] E. Dering (1576). 
This year. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who toys; one who is full of trifling tricks; a trifler. 
Full of trifling play. [Obs.] Donne. 
One who deals toys. 
To pull violently; to touse. [Obs.] 
Soft, like wool that has been teased. -- To"zi*ness, n. 
A toga of purple, or ornamented with purple horizontal stripes. -- worn by kings, consuls, and augurs. Dr. W. Smith. 
Same as Trubu. 
One of two straps, chains, or ropes of a harness, extending from the collar or breastplate to a whiffletree attached to a vehicle or thing to be drawn; a tug. 
A very small quantity of an element or compound in a given substance, especially when so small that the amount is not quantitatively determined in an analysis;-hence, in stating an analysis, often contracted to tr. 
To walk; to go; to travel. [Obs.] Not wont on foot with heavy arms to trace. Spenser. 
One who, or that which, traces. 
The entire lower surface of the foot;-said of birds, ect. 
To follow the tracks or traces of; to pursue by following the marks of the feet; to trace; to trail; as, to track a deer in the snow. It was often found impossible to track the robbers to their retreats among the hills and morasses. Macaulay. 
A written discourse or dissertation, generally of short extent; a short treatise, especially on practical religion. The church clergy at that writ the best collection of tracts against popery that ever appeared. Swift. Tracts for the Times. See Tractarian. 
Verses of Scripture sung at Mass, instead of the Alleluia, from Septuagesima Sunday till the Saturday befor Easter;-so called because sung tractim,or without a break, by one voice, instead of by many as in the antiphons. 
To trace out; to track; also, to draw out; to protact. [Obs.] Spenser. B. Jonson. 
imp. of Tread. Chaucer. 
The trade winds. 
To sell or exchange in commerce; to barter. They traded the persons of men. Ezek. xxvii. 13. To dicker and to swop, to trade rifles and watches. Cooper. 
imp. of Tread. 
Professional; practiced. [Obs.] Shak. 
A genus including spiderwort and Wandering Jew. 
A kind of drama representing some action in which serious and comic scenes are blended; a composition partaking of the nature both of tragedy and comedy. The noble tragi-comedy of "Measure for Measure." Macaulay. 
The prominence in front of the external opening of the ear. See Illust. under Ear. 
To carry, as a firearm, with the breech near the ground and the upper part inclined forward, the piece being held by the right hand near the middle. 
That part of the stock of a gun carriage which rests on the ground when the piece is unlimbered. See Illust. of Gun carriage, under Gun. 
To lead or direct, and form to a wall or espalier; to form to a proper shape, by bending, lopping, or pruning; as, to train young trees. He trained the young branches to the right hand or to the left. Jeffrey. 
A roll train; as, a 12-inch train. Roll train, or Train of rolls (Rolling Mill), a set of plain or grooved rolls for rolling metal into various forms by a series of consecutive operations. -- Train mile (Railroads), a unit employed in estimating running expenses, etc., being one of the total number of miles run by all the trains of a road, or system of roads, as within a given time, or for a given expenditure; -- called also mile run. -- Train of artillery, any number of cannon, mortars, etc., with the attendants and carriages which follow them into the field. Campbell (Dict. Mil. Sci.). -- Train of mechanism, a series of moving pieces, as wheels and pinions, each of which is follower to that which drives it, and driver to that which follows it. -- Train road, a slight railway for small cars, -- used for construction, or in mining. -- Train tackle (Naut.), a tackle for running guns in and out. 
Belonging to train oil. [Obs.] Gay. 
The keeper of an eating house, or restaurant; a restaurateur. Simmonds. 
A silk thread formed of two or more threads twisted together, used especially for the weft, or cross threads, of the best quality of velvets and silk goods. 
The loosely woven substance which lines the chambers within the gleba in certain Gasteromycetes. 
To travel; to wander; to stroll. 
One who tramps; a stroller; a vagrant or vagabond; a tramp. Dickens. 
A condition, often simulating death, in which there is a total suspension of the power of voluntary movement, with abolition of all evidences of mental activity and the reduction to a minimum of all the vital functions so that the patient lies still and apparently unconscious of surrounding objects, while the pulsation of the heart and the breathing, although still present, are almost or altogether imperceptible. He fell down in a trance. Chaucer. 
To pass; to travel. [Obs.] 
See Trance. [Obs.] 
To traffic in an itinerary manner; to peddle. [Written also traunt.] [Obs.] 
To dress with ornaments; to adorn; -- said especially of horses. Steeds . . . that trapped were in steel all glittering. Chaucer. To deck his hearse, and trap his tomb-black steed. Spenser. There she found her palfrey trapped In purple blazoned with armorial gold. Tennyson. 
An old term rather loosely used to designate various dark- colored, heavy igneous rocks, including especially the feldspathic- augitic rocks, basalt, dolerite, amygdaloid, etc., but including also some kinds of diorite. Called also trap rock. Trap tufa, Trap tuff, a kind of fragmental rock made up of fragments and earthy materials from trap rocks. 
Of or pertaining to trap rock; as, a trap dike. 
To set traps for game; to make a business of trapping game; as, to trap for beaver. 
A snare; a stratagem; a trepan. See 3d Trepan. South. 
To insnare; to catch by stratagem; to entrap; to trepan. Having some of his people trapanned at Baldivia. Anson. 
To walk or run about in an idle or slatternly manner; to traipse. [Obs. or Colloq.] 
A slattern; an idle, sluttish, or untidy woman. [Obs. or Colloq.] 
To go about in an idle or slatternly fashion; to trape; to traipse. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 
Same as Trappous. 
Small or portable articles for dress, furniture, or use; goods; luggage; things. [Colloq.] 
To follow with violence and trampling. [R.] The Puritan (1607). 
Like trash; containing much trash; waste; rejected; worthless; useless; as, a trashy novel. 
A white to gray volcanic tufa, formed of decomposed trachytic cinders; -- sometimes used as a cement. Hence, a coarse sort of plaster or mortar, durable in water, and used to line cisterns and other reservoirs of water. [Formerly written also tarras, tarrace, terras.] 
Same as Trant. [Obs.] 
A crossbeam; a lay of joists. Maundrell. 
An account, by a traveler, of occurrences and observations during a journey; as, a book of travels; -- often used as the title of a book; as, Travels in Italy. 
To take fish, or other marine animals, with a trawl. 
A boat used in fishing with trawls or trawlnets. 
To betray; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
As much as a tray will hold; enough to fill a tray. 
See Trais. Chaucer. 
The upper horizontal part of a step, on which the foot is placed. 
To care for medicinally or surgically; to manage in the use of remedies or appliances; as, to treat a disease, a wound, or a patient. 
Manageable; tractable; hence, moderate; not violent. [Obs.] " A treatable disposition, a strong memory." R. Parr. A kind of treatable dissolution. Hooker. The heats or the colds of seasons are less treatable than with us. Sir W. Temple. 
Trebly; triply. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 
The highest of the four principal parts in music; the part usually sung by boys or women; soprano. 
To become threefold. Swift. 
In a treble manner; with a threefold number or quantity; triply. Swift. 
Any perennial woody plant of considerable size (usually over twenty feet high) and growing with a single trunk. 
A pendulous branching lichen (Usnea barbata); -- so called from its resemblance to hair. 
pl. of Tree. " The shady treen." Fairfax. 
Ceremonially unclean, according to the Jewish law; -- opposed to kosher. 
A species of time; -- so called from its resemblance in form to a trefoil. 
Having a three-lobed extremity or extremities, as a cross; also, more rarely, ornamented with trefoils projecting from the edges, as a bearing. 
Guile; trickery. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 
The act of trekking; a drawing or a traveling; a journey; a migration. [Chiefly South Africa] 
A genus of large hymenopterous insects allied to the sawflies. The female lays her eggs in holes which she bores in the trunks of trees with her large and long ovipositor, and the larva bores in the wood. See Illust. of Horntail. 
An apparatus for depositing and consolidating concrete under water, essentially a tube of wood or sheet metal with a hooperlike top. It is usually handled by a crane. 
A trembling; a shivering or shaking; a quivering or vibratory motion; as, the tremor of a person who is weak, infirm, or old. He fell into an universal tremor of all his joints. Harvey. 
A fish spear. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
To fortify by cutting a ditch, and raising a rampart or breastwork with the earth thrown out of the ditch; to intrench. Pope. No more shall trenching war channel her fields. Shak. 
An excavation made during a siege, for the purpose of covering the troops as they advance toward the besieged place. The term includes the parallels and the approaches. To open the trenches (Mil.), to begin to dig or to form the lines of approach. Trench cavalier (Fort.), an elevation constructed (by a besieger) of gabions, fascines, earth, and the like, about half way up the glacis, in order to discover and enfilade the covered way. -- Trench plow, or Trench plough, a kind of plow for opening land to a greater depth than that of common furrows. 
To have a particular direction; to run; to stretch; to tend; as, the shore of the sea trends to the southwest. 
To cause to turn; to bend. [R.] Not far beneath i' the valley as she trends Her silver stream. W. Browne. 
Inclination in a particular direction; tendency; general direction; as, the trend of a coast. Trend of an anchor. (Naut.) (a) The lower end of the shank of an anchor, being the same distance on the shank from the throat that the arm measures from the throat to the bill. R. H. Dana, Jr. (b) The angle made by the line of a vessel's keel and the direction of the anchor cable, when she is swinging at anchor. 
To cleanse, as wool. [Prov. Eng.] 
Clean wool. [Prov. Eng.] 
A crown-saw or cylindrical saw for perforating the skull, turned, when used, like a bit or gimlet. See Trephine. 
To perforate (the skull) with a trepan, so as to remove a portion of the bone, and thus relieve the brain from pressure or irritation; to perform an operation with the trepan. 
To insnare; to trap; to trapan. Guards even of a dozen men were silently trepanned from their stations. De Quincey. 
Trembling; quaking. Thackeray. 
Treasure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A trestle. 
Abounding in tresses. J. Baillie. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Tread, for treadeth. Chaucer. 
An allowance to purchasers, for waste or refuse matter, of four pounds on every 104 pounds of suttle weight, or weight after the tare deducted. M'Culloch. 
A weaver's cutting instrument; for severing the loops of the pile threads of velvet. 
A stool or other thing supported by three legs; a trivet. 
Trowsers; especially, those of the Scotch Highlanders. "He wore the trews, or close trowsers, made of tartan." Sir W. Scott. 
Truth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Three, at cards, dice, or dominoes; a card, die, or domino of three spots or pips. Seven is my chance and thine is cinq and trey. Chaucer. 
An element or radical whose valence is three. Triads of the Welsh bards, poetical histories, in which the facts recorded are grouped by threes, three things or circumstances of a kind being mentioned together. -- Hindoo triad. See Trimurti. 
The formal examination of the matter in issue in a cause before a competent tribunal; the mode of determining a question of fact in a court of law; the examination, in legal form, of the facts in issue in a cause pending before a competent tribunal, for the purpose of determining such issue. 
The formation situated between the Permian and Lias, and so named by the Germans, because consisting of three series of strata, which are called in German the Bunter sandstein, Muschelkalk, and Keuper. 
Of or pertaining to a tribe or tribes; as, a tribal scepter. Bp. Warburton. 
A number of species or genera having certain structural characteristics in common; as, a tribe of plants; a tribe of animals. 
To distribute into tribes or classes. [R.] Our fowl, fish, and quadruped are well tribed. Abp. Nicolson. 
An apothecium in certain lichens, having a spherical surface marked with spiral or concentric ridges and furrows. 
To haul and tie up by means of a rope. 
A very short time; an instant; a moment; -- now used only in the phrase in a trice. "With a trice." Turbervile. " On a trice." Shak. A man shall make his fortune in a trice. Young. 
The whole number of cards played in one round, and consisting of as many cards as there are players. On one nice trick depends the general fate. Pope. 
One who tricks; a trickster. 
Given to tricks; practicing deception; trickish; knavish. 
A fabric of woolen, silk, or cotton knitted, or women to resemble knitted work. 
Short and ready; fleet; as, a tride pace; -- a term used by sportsmen. Bailey. 
imp. & p. p. of Try. Also adj. 
A Roman copper coin, equal to one third of the as. See 3d As, 2. 
A person appointed according to law to try challenges of jurors; a trior. Burrill. 
Cleft to the middle, or slightly beyond the middle, into three parts; three-cleft. 
To act or talk without seriousness, gravity, weight, or dignity; to act or talk with levity; to indulge in light or trivial amusements. They trifle, and they beat the air about nothing which toucheth us. Hooker. To trifle with, to play the fool with; to treat without respect or seriousness; to mock; as, to trifle with one's feelings, or with sacred things. 
One who trifles. Waterland. 
To fill; to stuff; to cram. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 
Full; also, trim; neat. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] To sit on a horse square and trig. Brit. Quart. Rev. 
To stop, as a wheel, by placing something under it; to scotch; to skid. 
A stone, block of wood, or anything else, placed under a wheel or barrel to prevent motion; a scotch; a skid. [Eng.] Wright. 
The cutting region of the crown of an upper molar, usually the anterior part. That of a lower molar is the Tri"go*nid. 
Any one of the Trigynia. 
To flow in a small stream, or in drops rapidly succeeding each other; to trickle. Sir W. Scott. And now and then an ample tear trilled down Her delicate cheek. Shak. Whispered sounds Of waters, trilling from the riven stone. Glover. 
To turn round; to twirl. [Obs.] Gascoigne. Bid him descend and trill another pin. Chaucer. 
To impart the quality of a trill to; to utter as, or with, a trill; as, to trill the r; to trill a note. The sober-suited songstress trills her lay. Thomson. 
To utter trills or a trill; to play or sing in tremulous vibrations of sound; to have a trembling sound; to quaver. To judge of trilling notes and tripping feet. Dryden. 
A shake or quaver of the voice in singing, or of the sound of an instrument, produced by the rapid alternation of two contiguous tones of the scale; as, to give a trill on the high C. See Shake. 
A trill or shake. See Trill. 
To dress, as timber; to make smooth. 
To balance; to fluctuate between parties, so as to appear to favor each. 
The lighter woodwork in the interior of a building; especially, that used around openings, generally in the form of a molded architrave, to protect the plastering at those points. In ballast trim (Naut.), having only ballast on board. R. H. Dana, Jr. -- Trim of the masts (Naut.), their position in regard to the ship and to each other, as near or distant, far forward or much aft, erect or raking. -- Trim of sails (Naut.), that adjustment, with reference to the wind, witch is best adapted to impel the ship forward. 
Fitly adjusted; being in good order., or made ready for service or use; firm; compact; snug; neat; fair; as, the ship is trim, or trim built; everything about the man is trim; a person is trim when his body is well shaped and firm; his dress is trim when it fits closely to his body, and appears tight and snug; a man or a soldier is trim when he stands erect. With comely carriage of her countenance trim. Spenser. So deemed I till I viewed their trim array Of boats last night. Trench. 
In a trim manner; nicely. 
Threefold. "Trinal unity." Milton. In their trinal triplicities on high. Spenser. 
Threefold; triple; as, trine dimensions, or length, breadth, and thickness. 
The aspect of planets distant from each other 120 degrees, or one third of the zodiac; trigon. In sextile, square, and trine. Milton. 
To put in the aspect of a trine. [R.] By fortune he [Saturn] was now to Venus trined. Dryden. 
A genus of limicoline birds including many species of sandpipers. See Dunlin, Knot, and Sandpiper. 
A kind of fishing net. [Obs.] Crabb. 
Of the value of three oboli; hence, mean; worthless. [Obs.] It may pass current . . . for a triobolar ballad. Cheyne. 
Same as Triplet. 
Same as Trier, 2 and 3. 
An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen; as, sulphur trioxide, SO3; -- formerly called tritoxide. 
To release, let fall, or see free, as a weight or compressed spring, as by removing a latch or detent. 
A single board, or tack, in plying, or beating, to windward. 
Having three feet. 
Same as Tripoli. 
To make threefold, or thrice as much or as many; to treble; as, to triple the tax on coffee. 
In a triple manner. 
An ancient stringed instrument; -- so called because, in form, it resembled the Delphic tripod. 
See Tripping, a., 2. 
To trust. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Sad; sorrowful; gloomy. [Obs.] Fairfax. 
A cattle fair. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Trist, a. [Obs.] Ashmole. 
Worn out; common; used until so common as to have lost novelty and interest; hackneyed; stale; as, a trite remark; a trite subject. -- Trite"ly, adv. -- Trite"ness, n. 
A fabled sea demigod, the son of Neptune and Amphitrite, and the trumpeter of Neptune. He is represented by poets and painters as having the upper part of his body like that of a man, and the lower part like that of a fish. He often has a trumpet made of a shell. Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea, Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn. Wordsworth. 
Propyl. [R.] 
Being three in one; -- an epithet used to express the unity of a trinity of persons in the Godhead. 
One of the three liberal arts forming the trivium. [Obs.] Skelton. Wood. 
See Trode. [Obs.] 
To cry, as a buck in rutting time. 
The cry of a buck in rutting time. 
A stylet, usually with a triangular point, used for exploring tissues or for inserting drainage tubes, as in dropsy. [Written also trochar.] 
A line of fortifications, usually rough, constructed to prevent the passage of an enemy across a region. [Sp. Amer.] 
A medicinal tablet or lozenge; strictly, one of circular form. 
An old English game; -- called also lawn billiards. 
imp. & p. p. of Tread. 
imp. of Tread. On burnished hooves his war-horse trode. Tennyson. 
Tread; footing. [Written also troad.][Obs.] Spenser. 
Any one of numerous species of beautiful tropical birds belonging to the family Trogonidæ. They are noted for the brilliant colors and the resplendent luster of their plumage. 
A wooden trough, forming a drain. Raymond. 
Pertaining to Troy; Trojan. Gladstone. 
Of or pertaining to ancient Troy or its inhabitants. -- n. 
A supernatural being, often represented as of diminutive size, but sometimes as a giant, and fabled to inhabit caves, hills, and like places; a witch. Troll flower. (Bot.) Same as Globeflower (a). 
One who trolls. 
A blowing apparatus, in which air, drawn into the upper part of a vertical tube through side holes by a stream of water within, is carried down with the water into a box or chamber below which it is led to a furnace. [Written also trompe, and trombe.] 
See 3d Trone, 2. [Obs. or Scott.] 
A native double salt, consisting of a combination of neutral and acid sodium carbonate, Na2CO3.2HNaCO3.2H2O, occurring as a white crystalline fibrous deposit from certain soda brine springs and lakes; -- called also urao, and by the ancients nitrum. 
A throne. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A small drain. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Specifically, a small body of cavalry, light horse, or dragoons, consisting usually of about sixty men, commanded by a captain; the unit of formation of cavalry, corresponding to the company in infantry. Formerly, also, a company of horse artillery; a battery. 
Any troupial. 
Any one of a series of artificial ethereal salts derived from the alkaloidal base tropine. 
The mouth parts of an insect, collectively, including the labrum, labium, maxillæ, mandibles, and lingua, with their appendages. 
A sign or memorial of a victory raised on the field of battle, or, in case of a naval victory, on the nearest land. Sometimes trophies were erected in the chief city of the conquered people. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine and certain other alkaloids, as a white crystalline substance slightly soluble in water. 
One of the two small circles of the celestial sphere, situated on each side of the equator, at a distance of 23º 28min, and parallel to it, which the sun just reaches at its greatest declination north or south, and from which it turns again toward the equator, the northern circle being called the Tropic of Cancer, and the southern the Tropic of Capricorn, from the names of the two signs at which they touch the ecliptic. 
Of or pertaining to the tropics; tropical. Tropic bird (Zoöl.), any one of three species of oceanic belonging to the genus Phaëthon, found chiefly in tropical seas. They are mostly white, and have two central tail feathers very long and slender. The yellow-billed tropic bird. Phaëthon flavirostris (called also boatswain), is found on the Atlantic coast of America, and is common at the Bermudas, where it breeds. 
Too much; as, allegro ma non troppo, brisk but not too much so. 
To cause to move, as a horse or other animal, in the pace called a trot; to cause to run without galloping or cantering. To trot out, to lead or bring out, as a horse, to show his paces; hence, to bring forward, as for exhibition. [Slang.] 
Faitless; false; treacherous. Thrall to the faithless waves and trothless sky. Fairfax. 
Any bivalve shell of the genus Mactra. See Mactra. 
See Troll. 
A company or troop, especially the company pf performers in a play or an opera. 
Trousers. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Any one of numerous species of fishes belonging to Salmo, Salvelinus, and allied genera of the family Salmonidæ. They are highly esteemed as game fishes and for the quality of their flesh. All the species breed in fresh water, but after spawning many of them descend to the sea if they have an opportunity. 
A boat with an open well amidships. It is used in spearing fish. Knight. 
To believe; to trust; to think or suppose. [Archaic] So that ye trow in Christ, and you baptize. Chaucer. A better priest, I trow, there nowhere none is. Chaucer. It never yet was worn, I trow. Tennyson. 
A tool used for smoothing a mold. Trowel bayonet. See Spade bayonet, under Spade. -- Fish trowel. See Fish slice, under Fish. 
See Troll. 
Troy weight. Troy weight, the weight which gold and silver, jewels, and the like, are weighed. It was so named from Troyes, in France, where it was first adopted in Europe. The troy ounce is supposed to have been brought from Cairo during the crusades. In this weight the pound is divided into 12 ounces, the ounce into 20 pennyweights, and the pennyweight into 24 grains; hence, the troy ounce contains 480 grains, and the troy pound contains 5760 grains. The avoirdupois pound contains 7000 troy grains; so that 175 pounds troy equal 144 pounds avoirdupois, or 1 pound troy = 0.82286 of a pound avoirdupois, and 1 ounce troy = 1apothecaries' weight, used in weighing medicines, etc. In the standard weights of the United States, the troy ounce is divided decimally down to the 
The act of playing truant, or the state of being truant; as, addicted to truancy. 
See Truant. [Obs.] 
One who stays away from business or any duty; especially, one who stays out of school without leave; an idler; a loiterer; a shirk. Dryden. I have a truant been to chivalry. Shak. To play truant, to stray away; to loiter; especially, to stay out of school without leave. Sir T. Browne 
Wandering from business or duty; loitering; idle, and shirking duty; as, a truant boy. While truant Jove, in infant pride, Played barefoot on Olympus' side. Trumbull. 
To idle away time; to loiter, or wander; to play the truant. Shak. By this means they lost their time and truanted on the fundamental grounds of saving knowledge. Lowell. 
To idle away; to waste. [R.] I dare not be the author Of truanting the time. Ford. 
A truffle. [Obs.] 
An East India herring (Clupea toli) which is extensively caught for the sake of its roe and for its flesh. 
A suspension of arms by agreement of the commanders of opposing forces; a temporary cessation of hostilities, for negotiation or other purpose; an armistice. 
A swiveling carriage, consisting of a frame with one or more pairs of wheels and the necessary boxes, springs, etc., to carry and guide one end of a locomotive or a car; -- sometimes called bogie in England. Trucks usually have four or six wheels. 
To transport on a truck or trucks. 
To exchange; to give in exchange; to barter; as, to truck knives for gold dust. We will begin by supposing the international trade to be in form, what it always is in reality, an actual trucking of one commodity against another. J. S. Mill. 
To exchange commodities; to barter; to trade; to deal. A master of a ship, who deceived them under color of trucking with them. Palfrey. Despotism itself is obliged to truck and huckster. Burke. To truck and higgle for a private good. Emerson. 
The practice of bartering goods; exchange; barter; truck. The truckage of perishing coin. Milton. 
To walk or march with labor; to jog along; to move wearily. And trudged to Rome upon my naked feet. Dryden. 
In accordance with truth; truly. Shak. 
A brothel. [Obs.] Robert Greene. 
An undoubted or self-evident truth; a statement which is pliantly true; a proposition needing no proof or argument; -- opposed to falsism. Trifling truisms clothed in great, swelling words. J. P. Smith. 
Having a delicately crackled surface; --applied to porcelian, etc. 
The act of laying on coats of plaster with a trowel. 
A wind instrument of music; a trumpet, or sound of a trumpet; - - used chiefly in Scripture and poetry. We shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump. 1 Cor. xv. 51, 52. The wakeful trump of doom. Milton. 
To blow a trumpet. [Obs.] Wyclif (Matt. vi. 2). 
To play a trump card when one of another suit has been led. 
To play a trump card upon; to take with a trump card; as, she trumped the first trick. 
Worthless or deceptive in character. "A trumpery little ring." Thackeray. 
A stake; a small post. [Obs.] 
That part of a pilaster which is between the base and the capital, corresponding to the shaft of a column. 
To extract (ores) from the slimes in which they are contained, by means of a trunk. See Trunk, n., 9. Weale. 
A bandage or apparatus used in cases of hernia, to keep up the reduced parts and hinder further protrusion, and for other purposes. 
The timbers, etc., which form a truss, taken collectively. Weale. 
An estate devised or granted in confidence that the devisee or grantee shall convey it, or dispose of the profits, at the will, or for the benefit, of another; an estate held for the use of another; a confidence respecting property reposed in one person, who is termed the trustee, for the benefit of another, who is called the cestui que trust. 
Held in trust; as, trust property; trustmoney. 
Any corporation formed for the purpose of acting as trustee. Such companies usually do more or less of a banking business. 
To assert as true; to declare. [R.] Had they [the ancients] dreamt this, they would have truthed it heaven. Ford. 
Truthful; likely; probable. [R.] "A more truthy import." W. G. Palgrave. 
To examine or investigate judicially; to examine by witnesses or other judicial evidence and the principles of law; as, to try a cause, or a criminal. 
Refined; select; excellent; choice. [Obs.] "Sugar that is try." Chaucer. 
Any one of several species of large sting rays belonging to Trygon and allied genera. 
Adapted to try, or put to severe trial; severe; afflictive; as, a trying occasion or position. 
A test by which the fitness of a player or contestant to remain in a certain class is determined. 
To mutually agree to meet at a certain place. [Scot.] 
The title of the emperor of Russia. See Czar. 
The springbok. 
A venomous two-winged African fly (Glossina morsitans) whose bite is very poisonous, and even fatal, to horses and cattle, but harmless to men. It renders extensive districts in which it abounds uninhabitable during certain seasons of the year. [Written also tzetze, and tsetze.] 
To plant or set in a tub; as, to tub a plant. 
To make use of a bathing tub; to lie or be in a bath; to bathe. [Colloq.] Don't we all tub in England London Spectator. 
Of or pertaining to a tube; specifically, of or pertaining to one of the Fallopian tubes; as, tubal pregnancy. 
Resembling a tub; specifically sounding dull and without resonance, like a tub; wanting elasticity or freedom of sound; as, a tubby violin. 
The narrow, hollow part of a gamopetalous corolla. 
To furnish with a tube; as, to tube a well. 
A tuberosity; a tubercle. 
As much as a tub will hold; enough to fill a tub. 
A genus of halcyonoids in which the skeleton, or coral (called organ-pipe coral), consists of a mass of parallel cylindrical tubes united at intervals by transverse plates. These corals are usually red or purple and form large masses. They are natives of the tropical parts of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. 
One of the two most experienced barristers in the Court of Exchequer. Cf. Postman, 2. 
A minute tube lined with glandular epithelium; as, the uriniferous tubules of the kidney. 
The Mexican pocket gopher (Geomys Mexicanus). It resembles the common pocket gopher of the Western United States, but is larger. Called also tugan, and tuza. 
See Tucket, a steak. [Obs.] 
A dark-colored kind of marble; touchstone. [Obs.] Sir J. Harrington. 
A long, narrow sword; a rapier. [Obs.] Shak. He wore large hose, and a tuck, as it was then called, or rapier, of tremendous length. Sir W. Scot. 
The beat of a drum. Scot. 
To full, as cloth. [Prov. Eng.] 
To contract; to draw together. [Obs.] 
The part of a vessel where the ends of the bottom planks meet under the stern. 
A fuller. [Prov. Eng.] 
To tire; to weary; -- usually with out. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A slight flourish on a trumpet; a fanfare. [Obs.] Tucket sonance, the sound of the tucket. [Obs.] Let the trumpets sound The tucket sonance and the note to mount. Shak. 
A steak; a collop. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 
A fine, strong fiber obtained from the young leaves of a Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum vulgare), used for cordage, bowstrings, etc.; also, the plant yielding this fiber. Called also tecum, and tecum fiber. 
A Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum Tucuma) which furnishes an edible fruit. 
Of or pertaining to a royal line of England, descended from Owen Tudor of Wales, who married the widowed queen of Henry V. The first reigning Tudor was Henry VII.; the last, Elizabeth. Tudor style (Arch.), the latest development of Gothic architecture in England, under the Tudors, characterized by flat four-centered arches, shallow moldings, and a profusion of paneling on the walls. 
The parson bird. 
The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] 
Pertaining to tufa; consisting of, or resembling, tufa. 
Same as Tufa. 
To grow in, or form, a tuft or tufts. 
A hanger-on to noblemen, or persons of quality, especially in English universities; a toady. See 1st Tuft, 3. [Cant, Eng.] Halliwell. 
A small, powerful steamboat used to tow vessels; -- called also steam tug, tugboat, and towboat. 
Same as Tucan. 
One who tugs. 
In plate armor, a suspended plate in from of the thigh. See Illust. of Tasses. 
A large bulrush (Scirpus lacustris, and S. Tatora) growing abundantly on overflowed land in California and elsewhere. 
Any plant of the liliaceous genus Tulipa. Many varieties are cultivated for their beautiful, often variegated flowers. Tulip tree. (a) A large American tree bearing tuliplike flowers. See Liriodendron. (b) A West Indian malvaceous tree (Paritium, or Hibiscus, tiliaceum). 
To allure; to tole. [Obs.] With empty hands men may no hawkes tull. Chaucer. 
A kind of silk lace or light netting, used for veils, etc. 
Act of tumbling, or rolling over; a fall. 
To swell; to cause to swell, or puff up. To swell, tumefy, stiffen, not the diction only, but the tenor of the thought. De Quincey. 
To rise in a tumor; to swell. 
The quality or state of being tumid. 
A morbid swelling, prominence, or growth, on any part of the body; especially, a growth produced by deposition of new tissue; a neoplasm. 
A little hillock; a knoll. Ainsworth. 
A strap placed across a man's forehead to assist him in carrying a pack on his back. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 
To make a tumult; to be in great commotion. [Obs.] Importuning and tumulting even to the fear of a revolt. Milton. 
A fermenting vat. 
To put into tuns, or casks. Boyle. 
The Opuntia Tuna. See Prickly pear, under Prickly. 
Capable of being tuned, or made harmonious; hence, harmonious; musical; tuneful. -- Tun"a*ble*ness, n. -- Tun"a*bly, adv. And tunable as sylvan pipe or song. Milton. 
A rolling, marshy, mossy plain of Northern Siberia. 
Harmonious; melodious; musical; as, tuneful notes. " Tuneful birds." Milton. -- Tune"ful*ly, adv. -- Tune"ful*ness, n. 
One who tunes; especially, one whose occupation is to tune musical instruments. 
An under-garment worn by the ancient Romans of both sexes. It was made with or without sleeves, reached to or below the knees, and was confined at the waist by a girdle. 
a. & n. from Tune, v. Tuning fork (Mus.), a steel instrument consisting of two prongs and a handle, which, being struck, gives a certain fixed tone. It is used for tuning instruments, or for ascertaining the pitch of tunes. 
A sharp blow; a thump. [Prov. Eng. or Colloq. U. S.] 
Same as Dunker. 
A level passage driven across the measures, or at right angles to veins which it is desired to reach; -- distinguished from the drift, or gangway, which is led along the vein when reached by the tunnel. Tunnel head (Metal.), the top of a smelting furnace where the materials are put in. -- Tunnel kiln, a limekiln in which coal is burned, as distinguished from a flame kiln, in which wood or peat is used. -- Tunnel net, a net with a wide mouth at one end and narrow at the other. -- Tunnel pit, Tunnel shaft, a pit or shaft sunk from the top of the ground to the level of a tunnel, for drawing up the earth and stones, for ventilation, lighting, and the like. 
To catch in a tunnel net. 
Any one of several species of large oceanic fishes belonging to the Mackerel family, especially the common or great tunny (Orcynus or Albacora thynnus) native of the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. It sometimes weighs a thousand pounds or more, and is extensively caught in the Mediterranean. On the American coast it is called horse mackerel. See Illust. of Horse mackerel, under Horse. [Written also thynny.] 
A ram. 
Any one of the tupaiids. 
A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora) of the Dogwood family, having brilliant, glossy foliage and acid red berries. The wood is crossgrained and very difficult to split. Called also black gum, sour gum, and pepperidge. Largo tupelo, or Tupelo gum (Bot.), an American tree (Nyssa uniflora) with softer wood than the tupelo. -- Sour tupelo (Bot.), the Ogeechee lime. 
An Indian of the tribe from which the Tupian stock takes its name, dwelling, at the advent of the Portuguese, about the mouth of the Amazon. Also, their language, which is the basis of the Indian trade language of the Amazon. 
Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of South American Indians comprising the most important Brazilian tribes. Agriculture, pottery, and stone working were practiced by them at the time of the conquest. The Tupi and the Guarani were originally the most powerful of the stock, which is hence also called Tupi-Guaranian. 
A man who breeds, or deals in tups. [Prov. Eng.] 
A kind of warm cap winter wear, made from a knit bag with closed tapered ends by pushing one end within the other, thus making a conical cap of double thickness. 
The urus. 
The hare kangaroo. 
The whole set of whorls of a spiral shell. 
Turbidness. 
The turbot. 
Any one of numerous marine gastropods of the genus Turbo or family Turbinidæ, usually having a turbinate shell, pearly on the inside, and a calcareous operculum. 
The quality or state of being turbulent; a disturbed state; tumult; disorder; agitation. Shak. The years of . . . warfare and turbulence which ensued. Southey. 
A genus of singing birds including the true thrushes. 
A large, deep vessel for holding soup, or other liquid food, at the table. [Written also terreen.] 
To cover with turf or sod; as, to turf a bank, of the border of a terrace. A. Tucker. 
Made of turf; covered with turf. 
To become turgid; to swell or be inflated. [R.] 
The quality or state of being turgid. 
A shoot or sprout from the ground. Gray. 
Same as Turio. 
The plum weevil. See Curculio, and Plum weevil, under Plum. Turk's cap. (Bot.) (a) Turk's-cap lily. See under Lily. (b) A tulip. (c) A plant of the genus Melocactus; Turk's head. See Melon cactus, under Melon. -- Turk's head. (a) (Naut.) A knot of turbanlike form worked on a rope with a piece of small line. R. H. Dana, Jr. (b) (Bot.) See Turk's cap (c) above. -- Turk's turban (Bot.), a plant of the genus Ranunculus; crowfoot. 
An empire in the southeast of Europe and southwest of Asia. Turkey carpet, a superior kind of carpet made in Asia Minor and adjoining countries, having a deep pile and composed of pure wool with a weft of different material. It is distinguishable by its coloring and patterns from similar carpets made in India and elsewhere. -- Turkey oak. (Bot.) See Cerris. -- Turkey red. (a) A brilliant red imparted by madder to cottons, calicoes, etc., the fiber of which has been prepared previously with oil or other fatty matter. (b) Cloth dyed with this red. -- Turkey sponge. (Zoöl.) See Toilet sponge, under Sponge. -- Turkey stone, a kind of oilstone from Turkey; novaculite; -- called also Turkey oilstone. 
Any large American gallinaceous bird belonging to the genus Meleagris, especially the North American wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), and the domestic turkey, which was probably derived from the Mexican wild turkey, but had been domesticated by the Indians long before the discovery of America. 
Turkish. 
Turquois. [Obs.] 
A turtle. [Obs. or Illiterate] 
One of a body of native Algerian tirailleurs in the French army, dressed as a Turk. [Written also Turco.] 
A troop; a company. [Obs. or Poetic] Legions and cohorts, turms of horse and wings. Milton. 
To invert a type of the same thickness, as temporary substitute for any sort which is exhausted. To turn about, to face to another quarter; to turn around. -- To turn again, to come back after going; to return. Shak. -- To turn against, to become unfriendly or hostile to. -- To turn aside or away. (a) To turn from the direct course; to withdraw from a company; to deviate. (b) To depart; to remove. (c) To avert one's face. -- To turn back, to turn so as to go in an opposite direction; to retrace one's steps. -- To turn in. (a) To bend inward. (b) To enter for lodgings or entertainment. (c) To go to bed. [Colloq.] -- To turn into, to enter by making a turn; as, to turn into a side street. -- To turn off, to be diverted; to deviate from a course; as, the road turns off to the left. -- To turn on or upon. (a) To turn against; to confront in hostility or anger. (b) To reply to or retort. (c) To depend on; as, the result turns on one condition. -- To turn out. (a) To move from its place, as a bone. (b) To bend or point outward; as, his toes turn out. (c) To rise from bed. [Colloq.] (d) To come abroad; to appear; as, not many turned out to the fire. (e) To prove in the result; to issue; to result; as, the cropsturned out poorly. -- To turn over, to turn from side to side; to roll; to tumble. -- To turn round. (a) To change position so as to face in another direction. (b) To change one's opinion; to change from one view or party to another. -- To turn to, to apply one's self to; have recourse to; to refer to. "Helvicus's tables may be turned to on all occasions." Locke. -- To turn to account, profit, advantage, or the like, to be made profitable or advantageous; to become worth the while. -- To turn under, to bend, or be folded, downward or under. -- To turn up. (a) To bend, or be doubled, upward. (b) To appear; to come to light; to transpire; to occur; to happen. 
A pit sunk in some part of a drift. 
See Turnip. [Obs.] 
A variety of pigeon; a tumbler. 
A person who practices athletic or gymnastic exercises. 
Tourney. [Obs.] Chaucer. "In open turney." Spenser. Milton. 
The edible, fleshy, roundish, or somewhat conical, root of a cruciferous plant (Brassica campestris, var. Napus); also, the plant itself. [Formerly written also turnep.] Swedish turnip (Bot.), a kind of turnip. See Ruta-baga. -- Turnip flea (Zoöl.), a small flea-beetle (Haltica, or Phyllotreta, striolata), which feeds upon the turnip, and often seriously injures it. It is black with a stripe of yellow on each elytron. The name is also applied to several other small insects which are injurious to turnips. See Illust. under Flea-beetle. -- Turnip fly. (Zoöl.) (a) The turnip flea. (b) A two-winged fly (Anthomyia radicum) whose larvæ live in the turnip root. 
Any one of numerous species of birds belonging to Turnix or Hemipodius and allied genera of the family Turnicidæ. These birds resemble quails and partridges in general appearance and in some of their habits, but differ in important anatomical characteristics. The hind toe is usually lacking. They are found in Asia, Africa, Southern Europe, the East Indian Islands, and esp. in Australia and adjacent islands, where they are called quails (see Quail, n., 3.). See Turnicimorphæ. 
A common, large, handsome, American swallowtail butterfly, now regarded as one of the forms of Papilio, or Jasoniades, glaucus. The wings are yellow, margined and barred with black, and with an orange- red spot near the posterior angle of the hind wings. Called also tiger swallowtail. See Illust. under Swallowtail. 
A land tortoise. [Obs.] 
A certain tool used by coopers. Sherwood. 
A little tower, frequently a merely ornamental structure at one of the angles of a larger structure. 
The turtledove. 
Any one of the numerous species of Testudinata, especially a sea turtle, or chelonian. 
pl. of Turf. 
Of or pertaining to Tuscany in Italy; -- specifically designating one of the five orders of architecture recognized and described by the Italian writers of the 16th century, or characteristic of the order. The original of this order was not used by the Greeks, but by the Romans under the Empire. See Order, and Illust. of Capital. 
A native or inhabitant of Tuscany. 
A tush of a horse. 
An exclamation indicating check, rebuke, or contempt; as, tush, tush! do not speak of it. Tush, say they, how should God perceive it Bk. of Com. Prayer (Ps. lxxiii. 11). 
A long, pointed tooth; a tusk; -- applied especially to certain teeth of horses. 
Same as Torsk. 
One of the elongated incisor or canine teeth of the wild boar, elephant, etc.; hence, any long, protruding tooth. 
To bare or gnash the teeth. [Obs.] 
Furnished with tusks. The tusked boar out of the wood. Milton. 
An elephant having large tusks. 
Having tusks. "The scar indented by the tusky oar." Dryden. 
Pertaining to, or manifested by, cough. 
A cough. 
To struggle, as in sport; to scuffle; to struggle with. [Colloq.] 
A struggle; a scuffle. [Colloq.] 
Be still; hush; -- an exclamation used for checking or rebuking. 
Having the guardianship or charge of protecting a person or a thing; guardian; protecting; as, tutelary goddesses. This, of all advantages, is the greatest . . . the most tutelary of morals. Landor. 
Tutelage. [Obs.] Howell. 
One who guards, protects, watches over, or has the care of, some person or thing. Specifically: -- (a) A treasurer; a keeper. "Tutour of your treasure." Piers Plowman. (b) (Civ. Law) One who has the charge of a child or pupil and his estate; a guardian. (c) A private or public teacher. (d) (Eng. Universities) An officer or member of some hall, who instructs students, and is responsible for their discipline. (e) (Am. Colleges) An instructor of a lower rank than a professor. 
The office or occupation of a tutor; tutorship; guardianship. 
Tutorage. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
A female guardian; a tutoress. [R.] Smollett. 
A plant of the genus Hypericum (H. Androsoemum), from which a healing ointment is prepared in Spain; -- called also parkleaves. 
All; -- a direction for all the singers or players to perform together. Moore (Encyc. of Music). 
A yellow or brown amorphous substance obtained as a sublimation product in the flues of smelting furnaces of zinc, and consisting of a crude zinc oxide. 
Lit., thine; that which is thine; -- used in meum and tuum. See 2d Meum. 
A nozzle, mouthpiece, or fixture through which the blast is delivered to the interior of a blast furnace, or to the fire of a forge. [Corruptly written also tweer, and twier.] Tuyère arch, the embrasure, in the wall of a blast furnace through which the tuyère enters. 
A lock or tuft of hair. [Obs.] Dryden. 
The tucan. 
Idle trifling; twaddle. 
Two;- nearly obsolete in common discourse, but used in poetry and burlesque. "Children twain." Chaucer. And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Matt. v. 41. In twain, in halves; into two parts; asunder. When old winder split the rocks in twain. Dryden. -- Twain cloud. (Meteor.) Same as Cumulo-stratus. 
A European shad; -- called also twaite shad. See Shad. 
A piece of cleared ground. See Thwaite. 
A tang. See Tang a state. [R.] 
To sound with a quick, harsh noise; to make the sound of a tense string pulled and suddenly let go; as, the bowstring twanged. 
To make to sound, as by pulling a tense string and letting it go suddenly. Sounds the tough horn, and twangs the quivering string. Pope. 
To twang. While the twangling violin Struck up with Soldier-laddie. Tennyson. 
To cause to make a sharp twanging sound; to twang, or twangle. Addison. 
Two; twain. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To tweak. [Obs.] 
To pinch and pull with a sudden jerk and twist; to twitch; as, to tweak the nose. Shak. 
A soft and flexible fabric for men's wear, made wholly of wool except in some inferior kinds, the wool being dyed, usually in two colors, before weaving. 
See Twill. 
Same as Tuyère. 
One more that eleven; two and ten; twice six; a dozen. Twelve- men's morris. See the Note under Morris. -- Twelve Tables. (Rom. Antiq.) See under Table. 
See Duodecimo. 
Twenty times as many. 
Two. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Armed or provided with a twibil or twibils. 
To touch lightly, or play with; to tweedle; to twirl; as, to twiddle one's thumbs; to twiddle a watch key. [Written also twidle.] Thackeray. 
To twitch; to pull; to tweak. [Obs. or Scot.] 
A small shoot or branch of a tree or other plant, of no definite length or size. The Britons had boats made of willow twigs, covered on the outside with hides. Sir T. Raleigh. Twig borer (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small beetles which bore into twigs of shrubs and trees, as the apple-tree twig borer (Amphicerus bicaudatus). -- Twig girdler. (Zoöl.) See Girdler, 3. -- Twig rush (Bot.), any rushlike plant of the genus Cladium having hard, and sometimes prickly-edged, leaves or stalks. See Saw grass, under Saw. 
To beat with twigs. 
Of or pertaining to a twig or twigs; like a twig or twigs; full of twigs; abounding with shoots. " Twiggy trees." Evelyn. 
To twit. [Obs.] Spenser. 
p. p. of Twitch. Chaucer. 
To weave, as cloth, so as to produce the appearance of diagonal lines or ribs on the surface. 
A quill, or spool, for yarn. 
A machine for cleansing or loosening wool by the action of a revolving cylinder covered with long iron spikes or teeth; a willy or willying machine; -- called also twilly devil, and devil. See Devil, n., 6, and Willy. Tomlinson. 
A quilt. [Prov. Eng.] 
Double; consisting of two similar and corresponding parts. 
A sign and constellation of the zodiac; Gemini. See Gemini. 
To depart from a place or thing. [Obs.] "Ere that we farther twin." Chaucer. 
Any plant which twines about a support. 
To have a sudden, sharp, local pain, like a twitch; to suffer a keen, darting, or shooting pain; as, the side twinges. 
Winding around something; twisting; embracing; climbing by winding about a support; as, the hop is a twinning plant. 
To twinkle. [Obs.] 
The chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.] 
A twisted filament; a thread. [Obs.] Locke. 
To sing, or twitter. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To move or turn round rapidly; to whirl round; to move and turn rapidly with the fingers. See ruddy maids, Some taught with dexterous hand to twirl the wheel. Dodsley. No more beneath soft eve's consenting star Fandango twirls his jocund castanet. Byron. 
To revolve with velocity; to be whirled round rapidly. 
A material for gun barrels, consisting of iron and steel twisted and welded together; as, Damascus twist. (h) (Firearms & Ord.) The spiral course of the rifling of a gun barrel or a cannon. (i) A beverage made of brandy and gin. [Slang] 
imp. of Twist. Chaucer. 
To vex by bringing to notice, or reminding of, a fault, defect, misfortune, or the like; to revile; to reproach; to upbraid; to taunt; as, he twitted his friend of falsehood. This these scoffers twitted the Christian with. Tillotson. Æsop minds men of their errors, without twitting them for what is amiss. L'Estrange. 
To pull with a sudden jerk; to pluck with a short, quick motion; to snatch; as, to twitch one by the sleeve; to twitch a thing out of another's hand; to twitch off clusters of grapes. Thrice they twitched the diamond in her ear. Pope. 
A stick with a hole in one end through which passes a loop, which can be drawn tightly over the upper lip or an ear of a horse. By twisting the stick the compression is made sufficiently painful to keep the animal quiet during a slight surgical operation. J. H. Walsh. 
The meadow pipit. [Prov. Eng.] 
One and one; twice one. "Two great lights." Gen. i. 16. "Two black clouds." Milton. 
Having two distinct capsules; bicapsular. 
The title by which the shogun, or former commander in chief of the Japanese army, was known to foreigners. 
Same as Tidy. 
A chain or rope, one end of which passes through the mast, and is made fast to the center of a yard; the other end is attached to a tackle, by means of which the yard is hoisted or lowered. 
See Tie, the proper orthography. 
One who ties, or unites. [R.] 
See Typhoon. 
A tiger. [Obs.] 
p. pr. of Tie. 
The act or process of washing ores in a buddle. 
See 2d Tike. 
See 2d Tiler. 
A kind of kettledrum. [Written also trimbal.] A tymbal's sound were better than my voice. Prior. 
A hollow water-cooled iron casting in the upper part of the archway in which the dam stands. 
A panel; a tympanum. 
To shut; to close. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To lose. [Obs. or Scot.] "His bliss gan he tyne." Piers Plowman. Sir W. Scott. 
To become lost; to perish. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A prong or point of an antler. 
Anxiety; tine. [Obs.] "With labor and long tyne." Spenser. 
Small; tiny. [Obs.] 
Relating to a type or types; belonging to types; serving as a type; typical. Owen. 
A general form or structure common to a number of individuals; hence, the ideal representation of a species, genus, or other group, combining the essential characteristics; an animal or plant possessing or exemplifying the essential characteristics of a species, genus, or other group. Also, a group or division of animals having a certain typical or characteristic structure of body maintained within the group. Since the time of Cuvier and Baer . . . the whole animal kingdom has been universally held to be divisible into a small number of main divisions or types. Haeckel. (b) (Fine Arts) 
One who, or that which, sets type; a compositor; a machine for setting type. 
A violent whirlwind; specifically, a violent whirlwind occurring in the Chinese seas. 
Typhus. [Obs.] 
A contagious continued fever lasting from two to three weeks, attended with great prostration and cerebral disorder, and marked by a copious eruption of red spots upon the body. Also called jail fever, famine fever, putrid fever, spottled fever, etc. See Jail fever, under Jail. 
Typical. "Typic shades." Boyle. 
To represent by an image, form, model, or resemblance. Our Savior was typified, indeed, by the goat that was slain, and the scapegoat in the wilderness. Sir T. Browne. 
A person who operates a typewriting machine; a typewriter. 
A compositor. [Colloq.] 
A tyrant. [Obs.] Lordly love is such a tyran fell. Spenser. 
Any one of numerous species of American clamatorial birds belonging to the family Tyrannidæ; -- called also tyrant bird. 
To act like a tyrant; to play the tyrant; to tyrannical. [Obs.] Fuller. 
Curdled milk. [India] 
Attire. See 2d and 3d Tire. [Obs.] 
To prey. See 4th Tire. [Obs.] 
A native of Tyre. 
A beginner in learning; one who is in the rudiments of any branch of study; a person imperfectly acquainted with a subject; a novice. [Written also tiro.] The management of tyros of eighteen Is difficult. Cowper. 
The black guillemot. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Tithe. 
The emperor of Russia. See Czar. 
Same as Tsetse. 
Same as Ouakari. 
Fruitfulness; copiousness; abundance; plenty. [Obs.] Florio. 
A tribe of North American Indians belonging to the Creek confederation. 
In Shetland and Orkney, a freehold; property held by udal, or allodial, right. 
Allodial; -- a term used in Finland, Shetland, and Orkney. See Allodial. Burrill. 
The glandular organ in which milk is secreted and stored; -- popularly called the bag in cows and other quadrupeds. See Mamma. A lioness, with udders all drawn dry. Shak. 
An exclamation expressive of disgust, horror, or recoil. Its utterance is usually accompanied by a shudder. 
To disfigure; to make ugly. [R.] Mad. D'Arblay. 
In an ugly manner; with deformity. 
A shade for the face, projecting from the bonnet. [Colloq. Eng.] C. Kingsley. 
To make ugly. [R.] Richardson. 
A Mongolian race, ancestors of the Finns. [Written also Uigrian.] 
Ugly; offensive; loathsome. [Obs.] -- Ug"some*ness, n. [Obs.] "The horror and ugsomeness of death." Latimer. 
One of a kind of light cavalry of Tartaric origin, first introduced into European armies in Poland. They are armed with lances, pistols, and sabers, and are employed chiefly as skirmishers. 
In Russia, a published proclamation or imperial order, having the force of law. 
See Uhlan. 
A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one of the natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in a constitutional disorder; a sore discharging pus. It is distinguished from an abscess, which has its beginning, at least, in the depth of the tissues. 
To ulcerate. [R.] Fuller. 
A Mexican and Central American tree (Castilloa elastica and C. Markhamiana) related to the breadfruit tree. Its milky juice contains caoutchouc. Called also ule tree. 
A college or corporation in Turkey composed of the hierarchy, namely, the imams, or ministers of religion, the muftis, or doctors of law, and the cadis, or administrators of justice. 
The amount which a vessel, as a cask, of liquor lacks of being full; wantage; deficiency. 
A European owl (Syrnium aluco) of a tawny color; -- called also uluia. 
See Melluc. 
A salt of ulmic acid. 
Pertaining to ulmin; designating an acid obtained from ulmin. 
A brown amorphous substance found in decaying vegetation. Cf. Humin. [Formerly written ulmine.] 
A genus of trees including the elm. 
The postaxial bone of the forearm, or branchium, corresponding to the fibula of the hind limb. See Radius. 
Measurement by the ell; alnage. 
Of or pertaining to the ulna, or the elbow; as, the ulnar nerve. 
One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus, which articulates with the ulna and corresponds to the cuneiform in man. 
Resembling a scar; scarlike. 
A long, loose overcoat, worn by men and women, originally made of frieze from Ulster, Ireland. 
Most remote; furthest; final; last. Ultima ratio Etym: [L.], the last reason or argument; the last resort. -- Ultima Thule. [L.] See Thule. 
The last syllable of a word. 
Ultimate; final. [Obs.] Bacon. 
In the month immediately preceding the present; as, on the 1st ultimo; -- usually abbreviated to ult. Cf. Proximo. 
The act of taking vengeance; revenge. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
Going beyond others, or beyond due limit; extreme; fanatical; uncompromising; as, an ultra reformer; ultra measures. 
One who advocates extreme measures; an ultraist; an extremist; a radical. Brougham. 
A genus of owls including the great gray owl (Ulula cinerea) of Arctic America, and other similar species. See Illust. of Owl. 
A genus of thin papery bright green seaweeds including the kinds called sea lettuce. 
About. [Obs.] Layamon. 
A kind of flower cluster in which the flower stalks radiate from a common point, as in the carrot and milkweed. It is simple or compound; in the latter case, each peduncle bears another little umbel, called umbellet, or umbellule. 
A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors, obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides of iron and manganese. It is commonly heated or burned before being used, and is then called burnt umber; when not heated, it is called raw umber. See Burnt umber, below. 
Of or pertaining to umber; resembling umber; olive-brown; dark brown; dark; dusky. Their harps are of the umber shade That hides the blush of waking day. J. R. Drake. 
To color with umber; to shade or darken; as, to umber over one's face. B. Jonson. 
Of or pertaining to umber; like umber; as, umbery gold. 
The entrails and coarser parts of a deer; hence, sometimes, entrails, in general. [Written also humbles.] Johnson. 
One of the lateral prominence just above the hinge of a bivalve shell. 
Any one of several species of sciænoid food fishes of the genus Umbrina, especially the Mediterranean species (U. cirrhosa), which is highly esteemed as a market fish; -- called also ombre, and umbrine. Umbra tree (Bot.), a tree (Phytolacca diocia) of the same genus as pokeweed. It is native of South America, but is now grown in southern Europe. It has large dark leaves, and a somber aspect. The juice of its berries is used for coloring wine. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 
See Umber. 
An umbrella. [Obs. or Colloq.] Each of them besides bore their umbrels. Shelton. 
A umbrere. [Obs.] 
An African two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus, or Rhinoceros, simus); -- called also chukuru, and white rhinoceros. 
The euphonic modification of a root vowel sound by the influence of a, u, or especially i, in the syllable which formerly followed. 
A third person, who is to decide a controversy or question submitted to arbitrators in case of their disagreement. Blackstone. 
To act as umpire or arbitrator. 
Not able; not having sufficient strength, means, knowledge, skill, or the like; impotent' weak; helpless; incapable; -- now usually followed by an infinitive or an adverbial phrase; as, unable for work; unable to bear fatigue. Sapless age and weak unable limbs. Shak. 
Unrequited. [R. & Obs.] Gower. 
To disarm. Sir T. Browne. 
To puff off, or lay down, one's arms or armor. "I'll unarm again." Shak. 
The two-toed sloth (Cholopus didactylus), native of South America. It is about two feet long. Its color is a uniform grayish brown, sometimes with a reddish tint. 
To pour, or take, or let go, out of a bag or bags. 
To remove a bank from; to open by, or as if by, the removal of a bank. H. Taylor. 
To remove a bar or bars from; to unbolt; to open; as, to unbar a gate. Heber. 
To deprive of the bark; to decorticate; to strip; as, to unbark a tree. Bacon. 
To cause to disembark; to land. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 
To free from the restraint of anything that surrounds or incloses; to let loose; to open. [Obs.] I ought . . . to unbay the current of my passion. Norris. 
To cause not to be; to cause to be another. [Obs. & R.] How oft, with danger of the field beset, Or with home mutinies, would he unbe Himself! Old Pay. 
To remove or loose the bearing rein of (a horse). 
To deliver from the form or nature of a beast. 
To raise or rouse from bed. Eels unbed themselves and stir at the noise of thunder. Wa 
To remove or loose the belt of; to ungird. 
Absence or want of benevolence; ill will. 
To free from bias or prejudice. Swift. 
To remove a band from; to set free from shackles or fastenings; to unite; to unfasten; to loose; as, unbind your fillets; to unbind a prisoner's arms; to unbind a load. 
To remove the turns of (a rope or cable) from the bits; as, to unbit a cable. Totten. 
To free from the body; to disembody. Her soul unbodied of the burdenous corse. Spenser. 
To leave the body; to be disembodied; -- said of the soul or spirit. [R.] Chaucer. 
To remove a bolt from; to unfasten; to unbar; to open. "He shall unbolt the gates." Shak. 
To explain or unfold a matter; to make a revelation. [Obs.] "I will unbolt to you." Shak. 
To take a bonnet from; to take off one's bonnet; to uncover; as, to unbonnet one's head. Sir W. Scott. 
To take off the boots from. 
Not born; no yet brought into life; being still to appear; future. Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb. Shak. See future sons, and daughters yet unborn. Pope. 
To unbend. [R.] Fuller. 
To remove from a box or boxes. 
To divest of the traits of a boy. [R.] Clarendon. 
To free the breech of, as a cannon, from its fastenings or coverings. Pennant. 
To remove the bung from; as, to unbung a cask. 
To disinter; to exhume; fig., to disclose. 
To loose, or release, from, or as from, a cage. 
To disturb; to disquiet. Dryden. 
To break up the camp of; to dislodge from camp. [R.] If they could but now uncamp their enemies. Milton. 
To remove a cap or cover from. 
To remove a cap or cape from. [Obs.] 
To take from, or set free from, a cart; to unload. 
To display, or spread to view, as a flag, or the colors of a military body. 
A claw. [Obs.] 
An ounce; a small portion. [Obs.] "By unces hung his locks." Chaucer. 
A twelfth part, as of the Roman as; an ounce. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain style of letters used in ancient manuscripts, esp. in Greek and Latin manuscripts. The letters are somewhat rounded, and the upstrokes and downstrokes usually have a slight inclination. These letters were used as early as the 1st century b. c., and were seldom used after the 10th century a. d., being superseded by the cursive style. 
An uncial letter. 
To deprive of the rank or rights of a city. [Obs.] 
Incapable of being cleansed or cleaned. 
To unwind, unfold, or untie; hence, to undo; to ruin. Shak. 
To disencumber of a clog, or of difficulties and obstructions; to free from encumbrances; to set at liberty. Shak. 
To unwind; to untangle. 
Unknown; strange, or foreign; unusual, or surprising; distant in manner; reserved. [Scot.] 
In a high degree; to a great extent; greatly; very. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A strange thing or person. [Scot.] 
To release from a coffle. 
To deprive of the coif or cap. Young. 
To unwind or open, as a coil of rope. Derham. 
To unhorse. [Obs. & R.] Shak. 
To release from cords; to loosen the cord or cords of; to unfasten or unbind; as, to uncord a package. 
To draw the cork from; as, to uncork a bottle. 
Hooklike; hooked. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 
To divest or deprive of a cowl. Pope. 
Not cultivated; rude; illiterate. [Obs.] 
To loose from curls, or ringlets; to straighten out, as anything curled or curly. He sheaths his paw, uncurls his angry mane. Dryden. 
To become uncurled, or straight. 
A hook or claw. 
Unknown; strange. [Obs.] -- n. 
To free from a dam, mound, or other obstruction. Dryden. 
Waving or wavy; -- applied to ordinaries, or division lines. 
To free from deafness; to cause to hear. [Obs.] Shak. 
To divest of ornaments. Shak. 
In a lower, subject, or subordinate condition; in subjection; - - used chiefly in a few idiomatic phrases; as, to bring under, to reduce to subjection; to subdue; to keep under, to keep in subjection; to control; to go under, to be unsuccessful; to fail. I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection. 1 Cor. ix. 27. The minstrel fell, but the foeman's chain Could not bring his proud soul under. Moore. 
Lower in position, intensity, rank, or degree; subject; subordinate; -- generally in composition with a noun, and written with or without the hyphen; as, an undercurrent; undertone; underdose; under-garment; underofficer; undersheriff. Under covert (Zoöl.), one of the feathers situated beneath the bases of the quills in the wings and tail of a bird. See Illust. under Bird. 
The time between; the time between sunrise and noon; specifically, the third hour of the day, or nine o'clock in the morning, according to ancient reckoning; hence, mealtime, because formerly the principal meal was eaten at that hour; also, later, the afternoon; the time between dinner and supper. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Betwixt undern and noon was the field all won. R. of Brunne. In a bed of worts still he lay Till it was past undern of the day. Chaucer. 
imp. of Undo. 
One of a class of fabled female water spirits who might receive a human soul by intermarrying with a mortal. 
To take out of dock; as, to undock a ship. 
One who undoes anything; especially, one who ruins another. 
p. p. of Undo. 
Not done or performed; neglected. 
To draw aside or open; to draw back. Angels undrew the curtain of the throne. Young. 
The quality of being undue. 
To deprive of dukedom. Swift. 
To remove the dullness of; to clear. [Obs.] Whitlock. 
In an undue manner. 
To free from dust. [Obs.] 
Want of ease; uneasiness. [Obs.] 
Not easy; difficult; hard. [Obs.] Who he was, uneath was to descry. Spenser. 
Not easily; hardly; scarcely. [Obs.] Uneath may she endure the flinty streets. Shak. 
To deprive of the edge; to blunt. J. Fletcher. 
Inevitable. [Obs.] 
To remove the face or cover from; to unmask; to expose. 
To deprive of fairness or beauty. [R.] Shak. 
Not fair; not honest; not impartial; disingenuous; using or involving trick or artifice; dishonest; unjust; unequal. You come, like an unfair merchant, to charge me with being in your debt. Swift. -- Un*fair"ly, adv -- Un*fair"ness, n. 
To remove from a file or record. 
Infirm. [R.] Dryden. 
To make unsuitable or incompetent; to deprive of the strength, skill, or proper qualities for anything; to disable; to incapacitate; to disqualify; as, sickness unfits a man for labor; sin unfits us for the society of holy beings. 
Not fit; unsuitable. -- Un*fit"ly, adv. -- Un*fit"ness, n. 
Not fledged; not feathered; hence, not fully developed; immature. Dryden. 
To open; to expand; to become disclosed or developed. The wind blows cold While the morning doth unfold. J. Fletcher. 
To restore from folly, or from being a fool. [Obs.] Shak. 
To decompose, or resolve into parts; to destroy the form of; to unmake. [R.] Good. 
Not free; held in bondage. There had always been a slave class, a class of the unfree, among the English as among all German peoples. J. R. Green 
To smooth after being fretted. [Obs.] 
To loose from a furled state; to unfold; to expand; to open or spread; as, to unfurl sails; to unfurl a flag. 
Ungainly; clumsy; awkward; also, troublesome; inconvenient. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Beau. & Pl. 
To strip of gear; to unharness; to throw out of gear. 
A person so far out of the protection of the law, that if he were murdered, no geld, or fine, should be paid, or composition made by him that killed him. Cowell. Burrill. 
To cause to be unbegotten or unborn, or as if unbegotten or unborn. [R.] I 'll disown you, I 'll disinherit you, I 'll unget you. Sheridan. 
To loose the girdle or band of; to unbind; to unload. He ungirded his camels. Gen. xxiv. 32. 
To yield; to relax; to give way. [Obs.] 
The siamang; -- called also ungka ape. 
To separate, part, or open, as anything fastened with glue. She stretches, gapes, unglues her eyes, And asks if it be time to rise. Swift. 
Not stained with gore; not bloodied. Sylvester. 
To strip of a gown; to unfrock. 
To deprive of a guard; to leave unprotected. [R.] Sterne. 
One of the terminal hooks on the foot of an insect. 
A section or part of a cylinder, cone, or other solid of revolution, cut off by a plane oblique to the base; -- so called from its resemblance to the hoof of a horse. 
To deprive of hair, or of hairs; as, to unhair hides for leather. I 'll unhair thy head. Shak. 
To loose from the hand; to let go. Hold off! unhand me, gray beard loon! Eftsoons his hand dropped he. Coleridge. 
Ill luck; misfortune. [Obs.] "The cause of her unhap." Sir P. Sidney. 
To unloose the hasp of; to unclose. 
To take off the hat of; to remove one's hat, especially as a mark of respect. H. Spenser. 
Misfortune; calamity; sickness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To uncover. See Unhele. [Obs.] 
Same as Unheal, n. [Obs.] 
To uncover. [Obs.] Spenser. Marston. 
To deprive of the helm or helmet. Sir W. Scott. 
To bring out from concealment; to discover. [Obs.] P. Fletcher. 
To take or steal from a hoard; to pilfer. Milton. 
To cease to hold; to unhand; to release. [Obs.] Otway. 
Not holy; unhallowed; not consecrated; hence, profane; wicked; impious. -- Un*ho"li*ly, adv. -- Un*ho"li*ness, n. 
To remove a hood or disguise from. Quarterly Rev. 
To loose from a hook; to undo or open by loosening or unfastening the hooks of; as, to unhook a fish; to unhook a dress. 
To strip or deprive of hoops; to take away the hoops of. 
Making one or unity; unifying. 
To cause to be one; to make into a unit; to unite; to view as one. A comprehensive or unifying act of the judging faculty. De Quincey. Perception is thus a unifying act. Sir W. Hamilton. 
Any one of numerous species of fresh-water mussels belonging to Unio and many allied genera. 
A joint or other connection uniting parts of machinery, or the like, as the elastic pipe of a tender connecting it with the feed pipe of a locomotive engine; especially, a pipe fitting for connecting pipes, or pipes and fittings, in such a way as to facilitate disconnection. 
Having only one foot. Wright. 
Being without a like or equal; unmatched; unequaled; unparalleled; single in kind or excellence; sole. -- U*nique"ly, adv. -- U*nique"ness, n. 
A thing without a like; something unequaled or unparalleled. [R.] The phenix, the unique pf birds. De Quincey. 
Identity in pitch; coincidence of sounds proceeding from an equality in the number of vibrations made in a given time by two or more sonorous bodies. Parts played or sung in octaves are also said to be in unison, or in octaves. 
Sounded alike in pitch; unisonant; unisonous; as, unison passages, in which two or more parts unite in coincident sound. 
The least whole number; one. Units are the integral parts of any large number. I. Watts. 
United; joint; as, unite consent. [Obs.] J. Webster. 
Combined; joined; made one. United Brethren. (Eccl.) See Moravian, n. -- United flowers (Bot.), flowers which have the stamens and pistils in the same flower. -- The United Kingdom, Great Britain and Ireland; -- so named since January 1, 1801, when the Legislative Union went into operation. -- United Greeks (Eccl.), those members of the Greek Church who acknowledge the supremacy of the pope; -- called also uniats. 
One who, or that which, unites. 
Any definite quantity, or aggregate of quantities or magnitudes taken as one, or for which 1 is made to stand in calculation; thus, in a table of natural sines, the radius of the circle is regarded as unity. 
To disjoin. 
Want of justice; injustice. [Obs.] Hales. 
See Unked. [Prov. Eng.] 
A European aquatic toad (Bombinator igneus). Its back is dark; its belly is marked with crimson. Called also feuerkröte. 
Unkempt. [Obs.] 
Unknown; strange. [Obs. or Scot.] W. Browne. 
Uncouth. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Having no race or kindred; childless. [Obs. & R.] Shak. 
Unkindness. Tennyson. 
To cause to cease to be a king. [R.] Shall his condescension, therefore, unking him South. 
To cancel or annul what was done or sealed by a kiss; to cancel by a kiss. [Obs.] Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me. Shak. 
See Uncle. [Obs.] 
To undo or unravel what is knitted together. Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow. Shak. 
To free from knots; to untie. 
Unknown. [Obs.] "French of Paris was to her unknow." Chaucer. 
To loose, and take off, as a bonnet from a sail, or to cast off, as any lacing in any part of the rigging of a vessel. Totten. 
To deprive of lands. 
To unfold. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To loose, as that which is lashed or tied down. 
To impose a fine upon; to fine. 
Not having the claws and balls of the forefeet cut off; -- said of dogs. 
To untwist; as, to unlay a rope. 
Upon any less condition than (the fact or thing stated in the sentence or clause which follows); if not; supposing that not; if it be not; were it not that; except; as, we shall fail unless we are industrious. 
Absence of likelihood. 
To take the lining out of; hence, to empty; as, to unline one's purse. 
To separate or undo, as links; to uncoil; to unfasten. Shak. 
To [R.] Glanvill. 
To perform the act of unloading anything; as, let unload now. 
To dislodge; to deprive of lodgment. Carew. 
To recall or retract, as a look. [R.] Richardson. 
To deprive of the rank or position of a lord. Milton. 
To cease to love; to hate. [Obs.] 
Listlessness; disinclination. [Obs.] "Idleness and unlust." Chaucer. 
To separate, as things cemented or luted; to take the lute or the clay from. Boyle. 
Not yet made or formed; as, an unmade grave. Shak. 
To destroy the form and qualities of; to deprive of being; to uncreate. God does not make or unmake things to try experiments. T. Burnet. 
To free from manacles. Tennyson. 
To strip of a mask or disguise; to lay open; to expose. 
To put off a mask. Shak. 
Not meet or fit; not proper; unbecoming; unsuitable; -- usually followed by for. "Unmeet for a wife." Tennyson. And all unmeet our carpet floors. Emerson. -- Un*meet"ly, adv. -- Un*meet"ness, n. 
To release from confinement or restraint. Keats. 
To weigh anchor. Sir W. Scott. 
To remove the nails from; to unfasten by removing nails. 
Not near; not close to; at a distance from. [Obs.] Davies (Muse's Sacrifice). 
To eject from a nest; to unnestle. [R.] T. Adams. 
To remove from condition of being a nun. [R.] Many did quickly unnun and disfriar themselves. Fuller. 
To remove the oil from. Dryden. 
One who unpacks. 
To undo, take back, or annul, as a payment. Shak. 
To remove a peg or pegs from; to unfasten; to open. Shak. 
To release from a pen or from confinement. "If a man unpens another's water." Blackstone. 
To pick out; to undo by picking. 
To loose from pins; to remove the pins from; to unfasten; as, to unpin a frock; to unpin a frame. 
Want of piety. [Obs.] 
To take out the folds or twists of, as something previously platted; to unfold; to unwreathe. 
Importunate; troublesome with requests. [Obs.] Golden Boke. 
To revoke or annul by prayer, as something previously prayed for. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 
To remove a prop or props from; to deprive of support. 
Not pure; impure. -- Un*pure"ly, adv. -- Un*pure"ness, n. 
The quality or state of being unready. 
Not real; unsubstantial; fanciful; ideal. 
To loosen the reins of; to remove restraint from. Addison. 
Want of rest or repose; unquietness; sleeplessness; uneasiness; disquietude. Is this, quoth she, the cause of your unrest! Chaucer. Can calm despair and wild unrest Be tenants of a single breast Tennyson. 
To strip of rigging; as, to unrig a ship. Totten. 
To rip; to cut open. Bacon. 
Quality or state of being unripe. 
To disrobe; to undress; to take off the robes. 
Not subjected to the principles or usages of the Roman Catholic Church. 
To strip off the roof or covering of, as a house. Shak. 
To tear up by the roots; to eradicate; to uproot. 
To be torn up by the roots. Beau. & Fl. 
To cease from being ruffled or agitated. Dryden. 
Not submissive to rule; disregarding restraint; disposed to violate; turbulent; ungovernable; refractory; as, an unruly boy; unruly boy; unruly conduct. But the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. James iii. 8. 
Unsteady; fickle. [Obs.] O, stormy people, unsad and ever untrue. Chaucer. 
To recant or recall, as what has been said; to refract; to take back again; to make as if not said. You can say and unsay things at pleasure. Goldsmith. 
To open the seam or seams of; to rip; to cut; to cut open. Shak. 
To disclose; to divulge. [Obs.] Bacon. 
To open, as the eyes of a hawk that have been seeled; hence, to give light to; to enlighten. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Not to seem. [Obs.] Shak. 
Not seldom; frequently. [R.] 
Not blessed or happy; wretched; unfortunate. [Written also unsilly.] [Obs.] Chaucer. -- Un*se"li*ness, n. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Not set; not fixed or appointed. 
To undo, as something sewn, or something inclosed by sewing; to rip apart; to take out the stitches of. 
To deprive of sex, or of qualities becoming to one's sex; esp., to make unfeminine in character, manners, duties, or the like; as, to unsex a woman. 
To strip the shell from; to take out of the shell; to hatch. 
To unshut. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To remove or detach, as any part or implement, from its proper position or connection when in use; as, to unship an oar; to unship capstan bars; to unship the tiller. 
To remove the shot from, as from a shotted gun; to unload. 
Not hit by a shot; also, not discharged or fired off. 
To open, or throw open. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To deprive of sinfulness, as a sin; to make sinless. [Obs.] Feltham. 
Not soft; hard; coarse; rough. [Obs.] "Bristles of his beard unsoft." Chaucer. 
Not softly. [Obs.] Great climbers fall unsoft. Spenser. 
Not sweet. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To deprive of soul, spirit, or principle. [R.] Shelton. 
To take the spars, stakes, or bars from. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 
Not performed; not dispatched. [Obs.] Garth. 
To untwist, as something spun. 
To remove, as a mast, from its step. 
To relieve from a strain; to relax. B. Jonson. 
Not to suit; to be unfit for. [Obs.] Quarles. 
To separate, as what is tacked; to disjoin; to release. being untacked from honest cares. Barrow. 
To unyoke a team from. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 
To bring out of a tent. [R.] Shak. 
To become untied or loosed. 
As far as; to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; till. See Till, conj. In open prospect nothing bounds our eye, Until the earth seems joined unto the sky. Dryden. But the rest of the dead lives not again until the thousand years were finished. Rev. xx. 5. 
To take the tiles from; to uncover by removing the tiles. 
An unseasonable time. [Obs.] A man shall not eat in untime. Chaucer. 
Until; till. [Obs.] "Unto this year be gone." Chaucer. 
Intolerable. [Obs.] 
To take from the tomb; to exhume; to disinter. Fuller. 
Untruly. [Obs. or Poetic] Chaucer. 
To unfold or undo, as a tuck; to release from a tuck or fold. 
To make incapable of harmony, or of harmonious action; to put out of tune. Shak. 
To turn in a reserve way, especially so as to open something; as, to unturn a key. Keats. 
To untie. [Archaic] Young. 
Not usual; uncommon; rare; as, an unusual season; a person of unusual grace or erudition. -- Un*u"su*al*ly, adv. -- Un*u"su*al*ness, n. 
See Unveil. 
To remove a veil from; to divest of a veil; to uncover; to disclose to view; to reveal; as, she unveiled her face. 
To remove a veil; to reveal one's self. 
To reverse or annul by vote, as a former vote. [R.] Bp, Burnet. 
Unawares; unexpectedly; -- sometimes preceded by at. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
To lose warmth; to grow cold. [R.] 
To restore from a warped state; to cause to be linger warped. 
Not washed or cleansed; filthy; unclean. 
Specifically, ill from menstruation; affected with, or having, catamenial; menstruant. 
To tame; to subdue. [Obs. & R.] Sylvester. 
To annul or reverse by an act of the will. Longfellow. 
To be or become unwound; to be capable of being unwound or untwisted. 
Not wise; defective in wisdom; injudicious; indiscreet; foolish; as, an unwise man; unwise kings; unwise measures. 
To wish not to be; to destroy by wishing. [Obs.] Now thou hast unwished five thousand men. Shak. 
To deprive of wit. [Obs.] Shak. 
Want of wit or understanding; ignorance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Unwonted; unused; unaccustomed. [Archaic] Sir W. Scott. 
To undo or destroy, as work previously done. 
To open or undo, as what is wrapped or folded. Chaucer. 
See Unwrie. [Obs.] 
To uncover. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Not yielded. [Obs.] "[By] force . . . is he taken unyolden." Sir T. Browne. 
A tree (Antiaris toxicaria) of the Breadfruit family, common in the forests of Java and the neighboring islands. Its secretions are poisonous, and it has been fabulously reported that the atmosphere about it is deleterious. Called also bohun upas. 
To bear up; to raise aloft; to support in an elevated situation; to sustain. Spenser. One short sigh of breath, upbore Even to the seat of God. Milton. A monstrous wave upbore The chief, and dashed him on the craggy shore. Pope. 
To bind up. [R.] Collins. 
To inflate. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To blow up; as, the wind upblows from the sea. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Cast up; thrown upward; as, with upcast eyes. Addison. 
A cast; a throw. Shak. 
Seized or caught up. " She bears upcaught a mariner away." Cowper. 
To coil up; to make into a coil, or to be made into a coil. 
To curl up. [R.] Tennyson. 
To spring upward; to rise. [R.] Davies (Microcosmos). 
To draw up. [R.] Milton. 
To end up; to set on end, as a cask. 
To fill up. [Obs.] 
To flow or stream up. Southey. 
To gaze upward. Byron. 
To give up or out. [Obs.] 
To grow up. [R.] Milton. 
A gushing upward. Hawthorne. 
To gush upward. 
imp. of Upheave. Chaucer. 
Lifted by the hand, or by both hands; as, the uphand sledge. [R.] Moxon. 
To hang up. Spenser. 
To hasp or faster up; to close; as, sleep uphasps the eyes. [R.] Stanyhurst. 
imp. & p. p. of Uphold. 
A fir pole of from four to seven inches diameter, and twenty to forty feet long, sometimes roughly hewn, used for scaffoldings, and sometimes for slight and common roofs, for which use it is split. [Spelt also ufer.] [Eng.] Gwilt. 
Upwards on, or as on, a hillside; as, to walk uphill. 
To thrust in up to the hilt; as, to uphilt one's sword into an enemy. [R.] Stanyhurst. 
To furnish (rooms, carriages, bedsteads, chairs, etc.) with hangings, coverings, cushions, etc.; to adorn with furnishings in cloth, velvet, silk, etc.; as, to upholster a couch; to upholster a room with curtains. 
Same as Euphroe. 
The act of keeping up, or maintaining; maintenance. "Horse artillery . . . expensive in the upkeep."  Scribner's Mag. 
The upland sandpiper. [Local, U. S.] 
To hoard. [Obs.] Donne. 
To lead upward. [Obs.] 
To lean or incline upon anything. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To lift or raise aloft; to raise; to elevate; as, to uplift the arm; to uplift a rock. Cowper. Satan, talking to his nearest mate, With head uplift above the wave, and eyes That sparkling blazed. Milton. 
A raising or upheaval of strata so as to disturb their regularity and uniformity, and to occasion folds, dislocations, and the like. 
To lock up. [Obs.] Shak. 
To look or gaze up. [Obs.] 
Highest; topmost; uppermost. Spenser. Dryden. 
On; -- used in all the senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable. "Upon an hill of flowers." Chaucer. Our host upon his stirrups stood anon. Chaucer. Thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar. Ex. xxix. 21. The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. Judg. xvi. 9. As I did stand my watch upon the hill. Shak. He made a great difference between people that did rebel upon wantonness, and them that did rebel upon want. Bacon. This advantage we lost upon the invention of firearms. Addison. Upon the whole, it will be necessary to avoid that perpetual repetition of the same epithets which we find in Homer. Pope. He had abandoned the frontiers, retiring upon Glasgow. Sir. W. Scott. Philip swore upon the Evangelists to abstain from aggression in my absence. Landor. 
A Pent up; confined. [Obs.] 
Being further up, literally or figuratively; higher in place, position, rank, dignity, or the like; superior; as, the upper lip; the upper side of a thing; the upper house of a legislature. The upper hand, the superiority; the advantage. See To have the upper hand, under Hand. Jowett (Thucyd.). -- Upper Bench (Eng. Hist.), the name of the highest court of common law (formerly King's Bench) during the Commonwealth. -- Upper case, the top one of a pair of compositor's cases. See the Note under 1st Case, n., 3. -- Upper covert (Zoöl.), one of the coverts situated above the bases of the tail quills. -- Upper deck (Naut.), the topmost deck of any vessel; the spar deck. -- Upper leather, the leather for the vamps and quarters of shoes. -- Upper strake (Naut.), the strake next to the deck, usually of hard wood, and heavier than the other strakes. -- Upper ten thousand, or (abbreviated) Upper ten, the ten thousand, more or less, who are highest in position or wealth; the upper class; the aristocracy. [Colloq.] -- Upper topsail (Naut.), the upper half of a double topsail. -- Upper works (Naut.), all those parts of the hull of a vessel that are properly above water. -- Upper world. (a) The atmosphere. (b) Heaven. (c) This world; the earth; -- in distinction from the underworld. 
The upper leather for a shoe; a vamp. 
To pile, or heap, up. Southey. 
Proud; arrogant; assuming; putting on airs of superiority. [Colloq.] T. Brown. -- Up"pish*ly, adv. [Colloq.] -- Up"pish*ness, n. [Colloq.] 
To prop up. Donne. 
To raise; to erect. Byron. 
The act of rising; appearance above the horizon; rising. [R.] Did ever raven sing so like a lark, That gives sweet tidings of the sun's uprise Shak. 
Uprising. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. of Uprise. Uprose. Chaucer. Nor dim nor red, like God's own head The glorious sun uprist. Coleridge. 
Great tumult; violent disturbance and noise; noisy confusion; bustle and clamor. But the Jews which believed not, . . . set all the city on an uproar. Acts xvii. 5. 
To throw into uproar or confusion. [Obs.] "Uproar the universal peace." Shak. 
To make an uproar. [R.] Carlyle. 
To roll up. Milton. 
To root up; to tear up by the roots, or as if by the roots; to remove utterly; to eradicate; to extirpate. Trees uprooted left their place. Dryden. At his command the uprooted hills retired. Milton. 
To run up; to ascend. The young sun That in the Ram is four degrees uprun. Chaucer. [A son] of matchless might, who, like a thriving plant, Upran to manhood. Cowper. 
To rush upward. Southey. 
Act of rushing upward; an upbreak or upburst; as, an uprush of lava. R. A. Proctor. 
To seek or strain upward. "Upseeking eyes suffused with . . . tears." Southey. 
To send, cast, or throw up. As when some island situate afar . . . Upsends a smoke to heaven. Cowper. 
To become upset. 
Set up; fixed; determined; -- used chiefly or only in the phrase upset price; that is, the price fixed upon as the minimum for property offered in a public sale, or, in an auction, the price at which property is set up or started by the auctioneer, and the lowest price at which it will be sold. After a solemn pause, Mr. Glossin offered the upset price for the lands and barony of Ellangowan. Sir W. Scott. 
The act of upsetting, or the state of being upset; an overturn; as, the wagon had an upset. 
Final issue; conclusion; the sum and substance; the end; the result; the consummation. I can not pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot. Shak. We account it frailty that threescore years and ten make the upshot of man's pleasurable existence. De Quincey. 
The upper side; the part that is uppermost. To be upsides with, to be even with. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. T. Hughes. -- Upside down. Etym: [Perhaps a corruption of OE. up so down, literally, up as down.] With the upper part undermost; hence, in confusion; in complete disorder; topsy-turvy. Shak. These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also. Acts xvii. 6. 
An upstart. [Obs.] Latimer. 
To soar or mount up. Pope. 
To sustain; to support. [Obs.] "His massy spear upstayed." Milton. 
Insurrection; commotion; disturbance. [Obs.] Sir J. Cheke. 
The time during which the sun is up, or above the horizon; the time between sunrise and sunset. 
To sway or swing aloft; as, to upsway a club. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 
To take into the hand; to take up; to help. [Obs.] Wyclif. Spenser. 
To tear up. Milton. 
To tie up. Spenser. 
To; against. [Obs. & R.] She, poor bird, as all forlorn, Leaned her breast uptill a thorn. Shak. 
To or in the upper part of a town; as, to go uptown. [Colloq. U. S.] 
Situated in, or belonging to, the upper part of a town or city; as, a uptown street, shop, etc.; uptown society. [Colloq. U. S.] 
To turn up; to direct upward; to throw up; as, to upturn the ground in plowing. "A sea of upturned faces." D. Webster. So scented the grim feature, and upturned His nostril wide into the murky air. Milton. 
A genus of birds which includes the common hoopoe. 
To waft upward. Cowper. 
Directed toward a higher place; as, with upward eye; with upward course. 
The upper part; the top. [Obs.] From the extremest upward of thy head. Shak. 
To wind up. Spenser. 
imp. of Upgive. Chaucer. 
The posterior half of an animal. 
A serpent, or serpent's head and neck, represented on the front of the headdresses of divinities and sovereigns as an emblem of supreme power. 
Pertaining to, or designating, the Urals, a mountain range between Europe and Asia. 
See Curare. 
Murexan. 
One of the nine Muses, daughter of Zeus by Mnemosyne, and patron of astronomy. 
Pertaining to, resembling, or containing uranium; specifically, designating those compounds in which uranium has a valence relatively higher than in uranous compounds. 
An alkaline salt of fluorescein, obtained as a brownish red substance, which is used as a dye; -- so called from the peculiar yellowish green fluorescence (resembling that of uranium glass) of its solutions. See Fluorescein. 
The son or husband of Gaia (Earth), and father of Chronos (Time) and the Titans. 
The radical UO2, conveniently regarded as a residue of many uranium compounds. 
See Trona. 
A salt of uric acid; as, sodium urate; ammonium urate. 
Of or containing urates; as, uratic calculi. 
Courteous in manners; polite; refined; elegant. 
A hedgehog. 
Rough; pricking; piercing. [R.] "Helping all urchin blasts." Milton. 
The urchin, or hedgehog. 
The language more generally called Hindoostanee. 
Use; practice; exercise. [Obs.] Fuller. Let us be sure of this, to put the best in ure That lies in us. Chapman. 
To use; to exercise; to inure; to accustom by practice. [Obs.] The French soldiers . . . from their youth have been practiced and ured in feats of arms. Sir T. More. 
A very soluble crystalline body which is the chief constituent of the urine in mammals and some other animals. It is also present in small quantity in blood, serous fluids, lymph, the liver, etc. 
Of or pertaining to urea; containing, or consisting of, urea; as, ureal deposits. 
One of the stages in the life history of certain rusts (Uredinales), regarded at one time as a distinct genus. It is a summer stage preceding the teleutospore, or winter stage. See Uredinales, in the Supplement. 
Any one of the many complex derivatives of urea; thus, hydantoin, and, in an extended dense, guanidine, caffeine, et., are ureides. [Written also ureid.] 
The duct which conveys the urine from the kidney to the bladder or cloaca. There are two ureters, one for each kidney. 
Of or pertaining to the urine; diuretic; urinary; as, uretic medicine. 
Urgency. [Obs.] 
Urging; pressing; besetting; plying, with importunity; calling for immediate attention; instantly important. "The urgent hour." Shak. Some urgent cause to ordain the contrary. Hooker. The Egyptians were urgent upon the people that they might send them out of the land in haste. Ex. xii. 33. 
One who urges. Beau. & Fl. 
Of or pertaining to urine; obtained from urine; as, uric acid. Uric acid, a crystalline body, present in small quantity in the urine of man and most mammals. Combined in the form of urate of ammonia, it is the chief constituent of the urine of birds and reptiles, forming the white part. Traces of it are also found in the various organs of the body. It is likewise a common constituent, either as the free acid or as a urate, of urinary or renal calculi and of the so-called gouty concretions. From acid urines, uric acid is frequently deposited, on standing in a cool place, in the form of a reddish yellow sediment, nearly always crystalline. Chemically, it is composed of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, C5H4N4O3, and by decomposition yields urea, among other products. It can be made synthetically by heating together urea and glycocoll. It was formerly called also lithic acid, in allusion to its occurrence in stone, or calculus. 
A part or decoration of the breastplate of the high priest among the ancient Jews, by which Jehovah revealed his will on certain occasions. Its nature has been the subject of conflicting conjectures. Thou shall put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim. Ex. xxviii. 30. And when Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets. 1 Sam. xxviii. 6. 
A reservoir for urine, etc., for manure. 
In mammals, a fluid excretion from the kidneys; in birds and reptiles, a solid or semisolid excretion. 
To urinate. [Obs.] Bacon. 
One of the segments of the abdomen or post-abdomen of arthropods. 
The bindings of a hedge. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
A measure of capacity for liquids, containing about three gallons and a haft, wine measure. It was haft the amphora, and four times the congius. 
To inclose in, or as in, an urn; to inurn. When horror universal shall descend, And heaven's dark concave urn all human race. Young. 
Of or pertaining to an urn; effected by an urn or urns. "Urnal interments." Sir T. Browne. 
As much as an urn will hold; enough to fill an urn. 
See Aurochs. 
Any one of the abdominal appendages of a crustacean, especially one of the posterior ones, which are often larger than the rest, and different in structure, and are used chiefly in locomotion. See Illust. of Crustacea, and Stomapoda. 
The aurochs. 
A sort of blue or black clay lying near a vein of coal. 
Either one of the Bears. See the Phrases below. Ursa Major Etym: [L.], the Great Bear, one of the most conspicuous of the northern constellations. It is situated near the pole, and contains the stars which form the Dipper, or Charles's Wain, two of which are the Pointers, or stars which point towards the North Star. -- Ursa Minor Etym: [L.], the Little Bear, the constellation nearest the north pole. It contains the north star, or polestar, which is situated in the extremity of the tail. 
The ursine seal. See the Note under 1st Seal. 
Of or pertaining to a bear; resembling a bear. Ursine baboon. (Zoöl.) See Chacma. -- Ursine dasyure (Zoöl.), the Tasmanian devil. -- Ursine howler (Zoöl.), the araguato. See Illust. under Howler. -- Ursine seal. (Zoöl.) See Sea bear, and the Note under 1st Seal. 
The Canada porcupine. See Porcupine. 
The bearded seal. 
A beautiful North American butterfly (Basilarchia, or Limenitis, astyanax). Its wings are nearly black with red and blue spots and blotches. Called also red-spotted purple. 
A genus of Carnivora including the common bears. 
A genus of plants including the common nettles. See Nettle, n. 
The black vulture (Catharista atrata). It ranges from the Southern United States to South America. See Vulture. 
A very large, powerful, and savage extinct bovine animal (Bos urus or primigenius) anciently abundant in Europe. It appears to have still existed in the time of Julius Cæsar. It had very large horns, and was hardly capable of domestication. Called also, ur, ure, and tur. 
The crab-eating ichneumon (Herpestes urva), native of India. The fur is black, annulated with white at the tip of each hair, and a white streak extends from the mouth to the shoulder. 
Capable of being used. 
One who has the use of anything in trust for another. [Obs.] Daniel. 
The time, fixed variously by the usage between different countries, when a bill of exchange is payable; as, a bill drawn on London at one usance, or at double usance. 
Using; accustomed. [Obs.] "Usant for to steal." Chaucer. 
The special form of ritual adopted for use in any diocese; as, the Sarum, or Canterbury, use; the Hereford use; the York use; the Roman use; etc. From henceforth all the whole realm shall have but one use. Pref. to Book of Common Prayer. 
Full of use, advantage, or profit; producing, or having power to produce, good; serviceable for any end or object; helpful toward advancing any purpose; beneficial; profitable; advantageous; as, vessels and instruments useful in a family; books useful for improvement; useful knowledge; useful arts. To what can I useful! Milton. 
Enjoyment of property; use. Mozley & W. 
To introduce or escort, as an usher, forerunner, or harbinger; to forerun; -- sometimes followed by in or forth; as, to usher in a stranger; to usher forth the guests; to usher a visitor into the room. The stars that usher evening rose. Milton. The Examiner was ushered into the world by a letter, setting forth the great genius of the author. Addison. 
A genus of lichens, most of the species of which have long, gray, pendulous, and finely branched fronds. Usnea barbata is the common bearded lichen which grows on branches of trees in northern forests. 
Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid obtained, as a yellow crystalline substance, from certain genera of lichens (Usnea, Parmelia, etc.). 
Ourselves. [Obs.] Wyclif. Piers Plowman. Chaucer. 
The act of burning, or the state of being burned. [R.] Johnson. 
Such as is in common use; such as occurs in ordinary practice, or in the ordinary course of events; customary; ordinary; habitual; common. Consultation with oracles was a thing very usual and frequent in their times. Hooker. We can make friends of these usual enemies. Baxter. -- U"su*al*ly, adv. -- U"su*al*ness, n. 
To practice usury; to charge unlawful interest. [Obs.] "The usuringb senate." Shak. I usured not ne to me usured any man. Wyclif (Jer. xv. 10). 
Usury. [Obs.] Wyclif. Foul usure and lucre of villainy. Chaucer. 
To seize, and hold in possession, by force, or without right; as, to usurp a throne; to usurp the prerogatives of the crown; to usurp power; to usurp the right of a patron is to oust or dispossess him. Alack, thou dost usurp authority. Shak. Another revolution, to get rid of this illegitimate and usurped government, would of course be perfectly justifiable. Burke. 
To commit forcible seizure of place, power, functions, or the like, without right; to commit unjust encroachments; to be, or act as, a usurper. The parish churches on which the Presbyterians and fanatics had usurped. Evelyn. And now the Spirits of the Mind Are busy with poor Peter Bell; Upon the rights of visual sense Usurping, with a prevalence More terrible than magic spell. Wordsworth. 
Interest in excess of a legal rate charged to a borrower for the use of money. 
The eighth day after any term or feast; the octave; as, the utas of St. Michael. Cowell. The marriage was celebrated and Canterbury, and in the utas of St. Hilary next ensuing she was crowned. Holinshed. 
The organ of a female mammal in which the young are developed previous to birth; the womb. 
An extensive tribe of North American Indians of the Shoshone stock, inhabiting Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona, and adjacent regions. They are subdivided into several subordinate tribes, some of which are among the most degraded of North American Indians. 
Any species of large West Indian rodents of the genus Capromys, or Utia. In general appearance and habits they resemble rats, but they are as large as rabbits. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, a subdivision of the Trenton Period of the Lower Silurian, characterized in the State of New York by beds of shale. 
Profitable; useful. [Obs.] 
See Utas. [Obs.] 
Outlawry. [Obs.] Camden. 
The most that can be; the farthest limit; the greatest power, degree, or effort; as, he has done his utmost; try your utmost. We have tried the utmost of our friends. Shak. 
Of or pertaining to Utopia; resembling Utopia; hence, ideal; chimerical; fanciful; founded upon, or involving, imaginary perfections; as, Utopian projects; Utopian happiness. 
Capable of being uttered. 
A small pulpy or juicy fruit containing several seeds and having a thin skin, as a grape. 
A conserve made of grapes. 
The posterior pigmented layer of the iris; -- sometimes applied to the whole iris together with the choroid coat. 
Resembling a grape. 
Pertaining to, or obtained from, grapes; specifically, designating an organic acid, C7H8O3 (also called pyrotritartaric acid), obtained as a white crystalline substance by the decomposition of tartaric and pyrotartaric acids. 
Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, CH3C6H3(CO2H)2, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the partial oxidation of mesitylene; -- called also mesitic acid. 
See Euphroe. 
The pendent fleshy lobe in the middle of the posterior border of the soft palate. 
Of or pertaining to a uvula. 
A Burman measure of twelve miles. 
Abandoned; having no heir, possessor, claimant, or occupier; as, a vacant estate. Bouvier. Vacant succession (Law), one that is claimed by no person, or where all the heirs are unknown, or where all the known heirs to it have renounced it. Burrill. 
Intermission of judicial proceedings; the space of time between the end of one term and the beginning of the next; nonterm; recess. "With lawyers in the vacation." Shak. (b) The intermission of the regular studies and exercises of an educational institution between terms; holidays; as, the spring vacation. (c) The time when an office is vacant; esp. (Eccl.), the time when a see, or other spiritual dignity, is vacant. 
A keeper of stock or cattle; a herdsman. [Southwestern U. S.] Bartlett. 
The goddess of rural leisure, to whom the husbandmen sacrificed at the close of the harvest. She was especially honored by the Sabines. 
A space entirely devoid of matter (called also, by way of distinction, absolute vacuum); hence, in a more general sense, a space, as the interior of a closed vessel, which has been exhausted to a high or the highest degree by an air pump or other artificial means; as, water boils at a reduced temperature in a vacuum. 
To fade; hence, to vanish. [Obs.] " Summer leaves all vaded." Shak. They into dust shall vade. Spenser. 
Pledge; security; bail. See Mortgage. Vadium vivum Etym: [LL.] (Law), a living pledge, which exists where an estate is granted until a debt is paid out of its proceeds. 
See Voe. [Scot.] 
Of or pertaining to the vagus, or pneumogastric nerves; pneumogastric. 
Crying like a child. [Obs.] 
The terminal part of the oviduct in insects and various other invertebrates. See Illust., of Spermatheca. 
Wandering; unsettled. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 
An indefinite expanse. [R.] The gray vague of unsympathizing sea. Lowell. 
To wander; to roam; to stray. [Obs.] "[The soul] doth vague and wander." Holland. 
A wandering; a vagary. [Obs.] Holinshed. 
Wandering; -- applied especially to the pneumogastric nerve. -- n. 
Same as Veil. 
To yield or recede; to give place; to show respect by yielding, uncovering, or the like. [Written also vale, and veil.] [Obs.] Thy convenience must vail to thy neighbor's necessity. South. 
Submission; decline; descent. [Obs.] 
One who vails. [Obs.] Overbury. 
Vanity; emptiness; -- now used only in the phrase in vain. For vain. See In vain. [Obs.] Shak. -- In vain, to no purpose; without effect; ineffectually. " In vain doth valor bleed." Milton. " In vain they do worship me." Matt. xv. 9. -- To take the name of God in vain, to use the name of God with levity or profaneness. 
In a vain manner; in vain. 
The skin of the squirrel, much used in the fourteenth century as fur for garments, and frequently mentioned by writers of that period in describing the costly dresses of kings, nobles, and prelates. It is represented in heraldry by a series of small shields placed close together, and alternately white and blue. Fairholt. No vair or ermine decked his garment. Sir W. Scott. Counter vair (Her.), a fur resembling vair, except in the arrangement of the patches or figures. 
Charged with vair; variegated with shield-shaped figures. See Vair. 
The third of the four great original castes among the Hindoos, now either extinct or partially represented by the mercantile class of Banyas. See the Note under Caste, 1. 
A native attorney or agent; also, an ambassador. [India] 
A tract of low ground, or of land between hills; a valley. " Make me a cottage in the vale." Tennyson. Beyond this vale of tears there is a life above. Montgomery. In those fair vales, by nature formed to please. Harte. 
See 2d Vail, 3. 
A kind of goad or stick with a point of iron. Valet de chambre ( Etym: [F.], a body servant, or personal attendant. 
Having legal strength or force; executed with the proper formalities; incapable of being rightfully overthrown or set aside; as, a valid deed; a valid covenant; a valid instrument of any kind; a valid claim or title; a valid marriage. 
A small sack or case, usually of leather, but sometimes of other material, for containing the clothes, toilet articles, etc., of a traveler; a traveling bag; a portmanteau. 
Of or pertaining to a rampart. Vallar crown (Rom. Antiq.), a circular gold crown with palisades, bestowed upon the soldier who first surmounted the rampart and broke into the enemy's camp. 
A vallar crown. 
A rampart; a wall, as in a fortification. 
Act or process of attempting to give an arbitrary market value or price to a commodity by governmental interference, as by maintaining a purchasing fund, making loans to producers to enable them to hold their products, etc.; -- used chiefly of such action by Brazil. 
Worth estimated by any standard of purchasing power, especially by the market price, or the amount of money agreed upon as an equivalent to the utility and cost of anything. An article may be possessed of the highest degree of utility, or power to minister to our wants and enjoyments, and may be universally made use of, without possessing exchangeable value. M'Culloch. Value is the power to command commodities generally. A. L. Chapin (Johnson's Cys.). Value is the generic term which expresses power in exchange. F. A. Walker. His design was not to pay him the value of his pictures, because they were above any price. Dryden. 
Highly regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; a valued friend. Valued policy. See under Policy. 
One who values; an appraiser. 
Value. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. 
One or more membranous partitions, flaps, or folds, which permit the passage of the contents of a vessel or cavity in one direction, but stop or retard the flow in the opposite direction; as, the ileocolic, mitral, and semilunar valves. 
Having a valve or valve; valvate. 
To depart quickly; to depart from. [Written also vamos, and vamoose.] [Slang, Eng. & U. S.] 
To advance; to travel. [Obs.] 
To provide, as a shoe, with new upper leather; hence, to piece, as any old thing, with a new part; to repair; to patch; -- often followed by up. I had never much hopes of your vamped play. Swift. 
One who vamps; one who pieces an old thing with something new; a cobbler. 
To swagger; to make an ostentatious show. [Prov. eng. & Scot.] Jamieson. 
See Vauntmure. [Obs.] 
The front of an army; the first line or leading column; also, the front line or foremost division of a fleet, either in sailing or in battle. Standards and gonfalons, twixt van and rear, Stream in the air. Milton. 
A shovel used in cleansing ore. 
To wash or cleanse, as a small portion of ore, on a shovel. Raymond. 
A wing with which the air is beaten. [Archaic] "[/Angels] on the air plumy vans received him. " Milton. He wheeled in air, and stretched his vans in vain; His vans no longer could his flight sustain. Dryden. 
To fan, or to cleanse by fanning; to winnow. [Obs.] Bacon. 
One of a Teutonic race, formerly dwelling on the south shore of the Baltic, the most barbarous and fierce of the northern nations that plundered Rome in the 5th century, notorious for destroying the monuments of art and literature. 
The rhachis and web of a feather taken together. 
A rope to steady the peak of a gaff. 
Benne (Sesamum orientale); also, its seeds; -- so called in the West Indies. 
The brief terminal part of vowel or vocal element, differing more or less in quality from the main part; as, a as in ale ordinarily ends with a vanish of i as in ill, o as in old with a vanish of oo as in foot. Rush. 
A small box, usually jeweled or of precious metal and worn on a chain, containing a mirror, powder puff, and other small toilet articles for a woman. 
The Australian pied crow shrike (Strepera graculina). It is glossy bluish black, with the under tail coverts and the tips and bases of the tail feathers white. 
A machine for concentrating ore. See Frue vanner. 
See Vaunt. [Obs.] 
That which is vapid, insipid, or lifeless; especially, the lifeless part of liquor or wine. [Obs.] In vain it is to wash a goblet, if you mean to put it nothing but the dead lees and vap of wine. Jer. Taylor. 
Having lost its life and spirit; dead; spiritless; insipid; flat; dull; unanimated; as, vapid beer; a vapid speech; a vapid state of the blood. A cheap, bloodless reformation, a guiltless liberty, appear flat and vapid to their taste. Burke. -- Vap"id*ly, adv. -- Vap"id*ness, n. 
Any substance in the gaseous, or aëriform, state, the condition of which is ordinarily that of a liquid or solid. 
To send off in vapor, or as if in vapor; as, to vapor away a heated fluid. [Written also vapour.] He'd laugh to see one throw his heart away, Another, sighing, vapor forth his soul. B. Jonson. 
The act of beating or whipping. [Obs.] 
A Spanish measure of length equal to about one yard. The vara now in use equals 33.385 inches. Johnson's Cyc. 
The monitor. See Monitor, 3. 
A wand or staff of authority or justice. [Obs.] His hand a vare of justice did uphold. Dryden. 
A weasel. [Prov. Eng.] Vare widgeon (Zoöl.), a female or young male of the smew; a weasel duck; -- so called from the resemblance of the head to that of a vare, or weasel. [Prov. Eng.] 
The calcined ashes of any coarse seaweed used for the manufacture of soda and iodine; also, the seaweed itself; fucus; wrack. 
The ringtailed lemur (Lemur catta) of Madagascar. Its long tail is annulated with black and white. 
Changed; altered; various; diversified; as, a varied experience; varied interests; varied scenery. -- Va"ried*ly, adv. The varied fields of science, ever new. Cowper. 
A wanderer; one who strays in search of variety. [Poetic] Pious variers from the church. Tennyson. 
To make different; to vary; to variegate. [R.] Sylvester. 
A uneven, permanent dilatation of a vein. 
The bush hog, or boshvark. 
The rabble; the crowd; the mob. Shall they hoist me up, And show me to the shouting varletry Of censuring Rome. Shak. 
The god of the waters; the Indian Neptune. He is regarded as regent of the west, and lord of punishment, and is represented as riding on a sea monster, holding in his hand a snaky cord or noose with which to bind offenders, under water. 
A deformity in which the foot is turned inward. See Talipes. 
In falconry, one of the rings secured to the ends of the jesses. [Written also vervel.] 
To embellish; to change fancifully; to present under new aspects, as of form, key, measure, etc. See Variation, 4. 
Alteration; change. [Obs.] Shak. 
A vessel; a duct. Vas deferens; pl. Vasa deferentia. Etym: [L. vas vessel + deferens carrying down.] (Anat.) The excretory duct of a testicle; a spermatic duct. 
The calyx of a plant. 
The grantee of a fief, feud, or fee; one who holds land of superior, and who vows fidelity and homage to him; a feudatory; a feudal tenant. Burrill. 
Resembling a vassal; slavish; servile. The sun and every vassal star. Keble. 
To treat as a vassal; to subject to control; to enslave. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
A waste region; boundless space; immensity. "The watery vast." Pope. Michael bid sound The archangel trumpet. Through the vast of heaven It sounded. Milton. 
See Wastel. [Obs.] Fuller. 
To a vast extent or degree; very greatly; immensely. Jer. Taylor. 
Vast; immense. [R.] I can call spirits from the vasty deep. Shak. 
A genus including several species of large marine gastropods having massive pyriform shells, with conspicuous folds on the columella. 
A vessel for holding holy water. 
To put or transfer into a vat. 
As much as a vat will hold; enough to fill a vat. 
An arched structure of masonry, forming a ceiling or canopy. The long-drawn aisle and fretted vault. Gray. 
To leap over; esp., to leap over by aid of the hands or a pole; as, to vault a fence. I will vault credit, and affect high pleasures. Webster (1623). 
Vaulted work; also, a vaulted place; an arched cellar. [Obs.] Shak. 
Arched; concave. [Obs.] "The vaulty heaven." Shak. 
To advance. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To boast; to make a vain display of one's own worth, attainments, decorations, or the like; to talk ostentatiously; to brag. Pride, which prompts a man to vaunt and overvalue what he is, does incline him to disvalue what he has. Gov. of Tongue. 
To boast of; to make a vain display of; to display with ostentation. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. 1 Cor. xiii. 4. My vanquisher, spoiled of his vaunted spoil. Milton. 
A vain display of what one is, or has, or has done; ostentation from vanity; a boast; a brag. The spirits beneath, whom I seduced With other promises and other vaunts. Milton. 
The first part. [Obs.] Shak. 
To put forward; to display. [Obs.] "Vaunted spear." Spenser. And what so else his person most may vaunt. Spenser. 
To vault; to leap. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A vault; a leap. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Vaulted. "The haughty vauty welkin." [Obs.] Taylor (1611). 
The fore part; van. [Obs.] Since we have the vaward of the day. Shak. 
The thirteenth, or intercalary, month of the Jewish ecclesiastical calendar, which is added about every third year. 
The flesh of a calf when killed and used for food. 
A directed quantity, as a straight line, a force, or a velocity. Vectors are said to be equal when their directions are the same their magnitudes equal. Cf. Scalar. 
The ancient sacred literature of the Hindoos; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda, constituting the most ancient portions of that literature. 
A Russian liquid measure, equal to 3.249 gallons of U.S. standard measure, or 2.706 imperial gallons. McElrath. 
To change direction; to turn; to shift; as, wind veers to the west or north. "His veering gait." Wordsworth. And as he leads, the following navy veers. Dryden. an ordinary community which is hostile or friendly as passion or as interest may veer about. Burke. To veer and haul (Naut.), to vary the course or direction; -- said of the wind, which veers aft and hauls forward. The wind is also said to veer when it shifts with the sun. 
To direct to a different course; to turn; to wear; as, to veer, or wear, a vessel. To veer and haul (Naut.), to pull tight and slacken alternately. Totten. -- To veer away or out (Naut.), to let out; to slacken and let run; to pay out; as, to veer away the cable; to veer out a rope. 
An American thrush (Turdus fuscescens) common in the Northern United States and Canada. It is light tawny brown above. The breast is pale buff, thickly spotted with brown. Called also Wilson's thrush. Sometimes I hear the veery's clarion. Thoreau. 
A brilliant star of the first magnitude, the brightest of those constituting the constellation Lyra. 
Lively; active; sprightly; vigorous. [Obs.] Even her body was made airy and vegete. Jer. Taylor. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain secret tribunals flourished in Germany from the end of the 12th century to the middle of the 16th, usurping many of the functions of the government which were too weak to maintain law and order, and inspiring dread in all who came within their jurisdiction. Encyc. Brit. 
A covering for a person or thing; as, a nun's veil; a paten veil; an altar veil. 
Covered by, or as by, a veil; hidden. "Words used to convey a veiled meaning." Earle. 
One of the vessels which carry blood, either venous or arterial, to the heart. See Artery, 2. 
To form or mark with veins; to fill or cover with veins. Tennyson. 
Pertaining to veins; venous. [R.] 
Having fibrovascular threads extending throughout the lamina; as, a veined leaf. 
Full of veins; veinous; veined; as, veiny marble. 
Having the place of articulation on the soft palate; guttural; as, the velar consonants, such as k and hard q. 
Having a veil; veiled. 
A region or tract of land; esp., the open field; grass country. [South Africa] 
A veil. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The salted stomach of a calf, used in making cheese; a rennet bag. [Prov. Eng.] 
To cut the turf from, as for burning. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Velvet. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A word occurring in the phrase real vellon. See the Note under Its Real. 
A fine kind of parchment, usually made from calfskin, and rendered clear and white, -- used as for writing upon, and for binding books. Vellum cloth, a fine kind of cotton fabric, made very transparent, and used as a tracing cloth. 
Curtain or covering; -- applied to various membranous partitions, especially to the soft palate. See under Palate. 
Velvet. [Obs.] "A woman's crupper of velure." Shak. 
Made of velvet; soft and delicate, like velvet; velvety. " The cowslip's velvet head." Milton. 
To pain velvet. [R.] Peacham. 
To make like, or cover with, velvet. [R.] 
A vein. Vena cava; pl. Venæ cavæ. Etym: [L., literally, hollow vein.] (Anat.) Any one of the great systemic veins connected directly with the heart.-- Vena contracta. Etym: [L., literally, contracted vein.] (Hydraulics) The contracted portion of a liquid jet at and near the orifice from which it issues. -- Vena portæ; pl. VenÆ portæ. Etym: [L., literally, vein of the entrance.] (Anat.) The portal vein of the liver. See under Portal. 
The pudu. 
Of or pertaining to veins; venous; as, venal blood. [R.] 
Capable of being bought or obtained for money or other valuable consideration; made matter of trade or barter; held for sale; salable; mercenary; purchasable; hireling; as, venal services. " Paid court to venal beauties." Macaulay. The venal cry and prepared vote of a passive senate. Burke. 
Of or, pertaining to hunting. 
To transfer to another person for a pecuniary equivalent; to make an object of trade; to dispose of by sale; to sell; as, to vend goods; to vend vegetables. 
A European lake whitefish (Coregonus Willughbii, or C. Vandesius) native of certain lakes in Scotland and England. It is regarded as a delicate food fish. Called also vendis. 
The person to whom a thing is vended, or sold; -- the correlative of vendor. 
One who vends; one who transfers the exclusive right of possessing a thing, either his own, or that of another as his agent, for a price or pecuniary equivalent; a seller; a vendor. 
A vender; a seller; the correlative of vendee. 
See Wends. 
A public sale of anything, by outcry, to the highest bidder; an auction. [Obsoles.] Vendue master, one who is authorized to sell any property by vendue; an auctioneer. [Obsoles.] 
To overlay or plate with a thin layer of wood or other material for outer finish or decoration; as, to veneer a piece of furniture with mahogany. Used also figuratively. As a rogue in grain Veneered with sanctimonious theory. Tennyson. 
A thin leaf or layer of a more valuable or beautiful material for overlaying an inferior one, especially such a thin leaf of wood to be glued to a cheaper wood; hence, external show; gloss; false pretense. Veneer moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus Chilo; -- so called because the mottled colors resemble those of veneering. 
Poisonous; venomous. [Obs.] 
Sexual love; sexual intercourse; coition. Contentment, without the pleasure of lawful venery, is continence; of unlawful, chastity. Grew. 
The art, act, or practice of hunting; the sports of the chase. "Beasts of venery and fishes." Sir T. Browne. I love hunting and venery. Chaucer. 
A bout, or turn, as at fencing; a thrust; a hit; a veney. [Obs.] Fuller. 
A bout; a thrust; a venew. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. Three veneys for a dish of stewed prunes. Shak. 
To avenge; to punish; to revenge. [Obs.] See Avenge, and Revenge. Chaucer. "To venge me, as I may." Shak. 
An avenger. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The quality or state of being venial; venialness. Jer. Taylor. 
A toxic substance contained in the venom of poisonous snakes; also, a (supposedly identical) toxic substance obtained by the cleavage of an albumose. 
The 95th Psalm, which is said or sung regularly in the public worship of many churches. Also, a musical composition adapted to this Psalm. 
To infect with venom; to envenom; to poison. [R.] "Venomed vengeance." Shak. 
Having numerous or conspicuous veins; veiny; as, a venose frond. 
Of or pertaining to a vein or veins; as, the venous circulation of the blood. 
Sale; opportunity to sell; market. [Obs.] Shelton. There is no vent for any commodity but of wool. Sir W. Temple. 
To sell; to vend. [Obs.] Therefore did those nations vent such spice. Sir W. Raleigh. 
A baiting place; an inn. [Obs.] 
To snuff; to breathe or puff out; to snort. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The anal opening of certain invertebrates and fishes; also, the external cloacal opening of reptiles, birds, amphibians, and many fishes. (b) (Gun.) The opening at the breech of a firearm, through which fire is communicated to the powder of the charge; touchhole. (c) (Steam Boilers) Sectional area of the passage for gases divided by the length of the same passage in feet. 
A small hole, as the stop in a flute; a vent. Shak. 
One who vents; one who utters, reports, or publishes. [R.] Barrow. 
The lower part of the abdomen in insects. 
A neighborhood or near place; the place or county in which anything is alleged to have happened; also, the place where an action is laid. The twelve men who are to try the cause must be of the same venue where the demand is made. Blackstone. 
A small vein; a veinlet; specifically (Zoöl.), one of the small branches of the veins of the wings in insects. 
The goddess of beauty and love, that is, beauty or love deified. 
Beautiful. [R.] E. Waterhouse. 
A word which affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part of speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action. 
Of or pertaining to a verb; as, a verbal group; derived directly from a verb; as, a verbal noun; used in forming verbs; as, a verbal prefix. Verbal inspiration. See under Inspiration. -- Verbal noun (Gram.), a noun derived directly from a verb or verb stem; a verbal. The term is specifically applied to infinitives, and nouns ending in -ing, esp. to the latter. See Gerund, and -ing, 2. See also, Infinitive mood, under Infinitive. 
A noun derived from a verb. 
The quality or state of being verdant. 
A small yellow-headed bird (Auriparus flaviceps) of Lower California, allied to the titmice; -- called also goldtit. 
Verdict. Chaucer. 
Charged with leaves, fruits, flowers, etc.; -- said of a border. 
A union, association, or society; -- used in names of German organizations. 
The compass of the court of Marshalsea and the Palace court, within which the lord steward and the marshal of the king's household had special jurisdiction; -- so called from the verge, or staff, which the marshal bore. 
The ornament of woodwork upon the gable of a house, used extensively in the 15th century. It was generally suspended from the edge of the projecting roof (see Verge, n., 4), and in position parallel to the gable wall. Called also bargeboard. 
One who carries a verge, or emblem of office. Specifically: -- (a) An attendant upon a dignitary, as on a bishop, a dean, a justice, etc. [Eng.] Strype. (b) The official who takes care of the interior of a church building. 
A garden or orchard. [Obs.] 
Speaking truth; truthful. [Obs.] 
In very truth; beyond doubt or question; in fact; certainly. Bacon. Trust in the Lord and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the verily thou shalt be fed. Ps. xxxvii. 3. 
An alkaloid obtained as a yellow amorphous substance by the decomposition of veratrine. 
One who treats of vermes, or worms; a helminthologist. 
Any species of vermetus. 
See Vermeil. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To breed vermin. 
Flourishing, as in spring; vernal. [Obs.] "Vernant flowers." Milton. 
Very; true. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Ferrule. [Obs.] 
A verse or verses. See Verse. [Obs.] "Ten vers or twelve." Chaucer. 
Universal. [Obs. or Colloq.] Shak. 
To tell in verse, or poetry. [Obs.] Playing on pipes of corn and versing love. Shak. 
To make verses; to versify. [Obs.] It is not rhyming and versing that maketh a poet. Sir P. Sidney. 
Acquainted or familiar, as the result of experience, study, practice, etc.; skilled; practiced. Deep versed in books and shallow in himself. Milton. Opinions . . . derived from studying the Scriptures, wherein he was versed beyond any person of his age. Southey. These men were versed in the details of business. Macaulay. 
Turned. Versed sine. See under Sine, and Illust. of Functions. 
A versifier. B. Jonson. 
A verse. [Obs.] Milton. 
The reverse, or left-hand, page of a book or a folded sheet of paper; -- opposed to recto. 
The turning factor of a quaternion. 
A Russian measure of length containing 3,500 English feet. [Written also werst.] 
Against; as, John Doe versus Richard Roe; -- chiefly used in legal language, and abbreviated to v. or vs. 
The color green, represented in a drawing or engraving by parallel lines sloping downward toward the right. 
A turning point; the principal or highest point; top; summit; crown; apex. Specifically: --(a) (Anat.) 
Virtuous; powerful. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Excitement of imagination such as animates a poet, artist, or musician, in composing or performing; rapture; enthusiasm; spirit; energy. 
See Varvel. 
A South African monkey (Cercopithecus pygerythrus, or Lelandii). The upper parts are grayish green, finely specked with black. The cheeks and belly are reddish white. 
True; real; actual; veritable. Whether thou be my very son Esau or not. Gen. xxvii. 21. He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter separateth very friends. Prov. xvii. 9. The very essence of truth is plainness and brightness. Milton. I looked on the consideration of public service or public ornament to be real and very justice. Burke. 
In a high degree; to no small extent; exceedingly; excessively; extremely; as, a very great mountain; a very bright sum; a very cold day; the river flows very rapidly; he was very much hurt. 
Onset; rush; violent draught or wind. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A bladder. Vesica piscis. Etym: [L., dish bladder.] (Eccl. Art) A glory, or aureole, of oval shape, or composed of two arcs of circles usually represented as surrounding a divine personage. More rarely, an oval composed of two arcs not representing a glory; a solid oval, etc. 
A genus of Hymenoptera including the common wasps and hornets. 
The evening star; Hesper; Venus, when seen after sunset; hence, the evening. Shak. 
Of or pertaining to the evening, or to the service of vespers; as, a vesper hymn; vesper bells. Vesper sparrow, the grass finch. See under Grass. 
Any tube or canal in which the blood or other fluids are contained, secreted, or circulated, as the arteries, veins, lymphatics, etc. 
To put into a vessel. [Obs.] Bacon. 
To clothe with possession; as, to vest a person with an estate; also, to give a person an immediate fixed right of present or future enjoyment of; as, an estate is vested in possession. Bouvier. 
To come or descend; to be fixed; to take effect, as a title or right; -- followed by in; as, upon the death of the ancestor, the estate, or the right to the estate, vests in the heir at law. 
One of the great divinities of the ancient Romans, identical with the Greek Hestia. She was a virgin, and the goddess of the hearth; hence, also, of the fire on it, and the family round it. 
Of or pertaining to Vesta, the virgin goddess of the hearth; hence, pure; chaste. 
A virgin consecrated to Vesta, and to the service of watching the sacred fire, which was to be perpetually kept burning upon her altar. 
Not in a state of contingency or suspension; fixed; as, vested rights; vested interests. Vested legacy (Law), a legacy the right to which commences in præsenti, and does not depend on a contingency; as, a legacy to one to be paid when he attains to twenty-one years of age is a vested legacy, and if the legatee dies before the testator, his representative shall receive it. Blackstone. -- Vested remainder (Law), an estate settled, to remain to a determined person, after the particular estate is spent. Blackstone. Kent. 
A parochial assembly; an assembly of persons who manage parochial affairs; -- so called because usually held in a vestry. 
Any leguminous plant of the genus Vicia, some species of which are valuable for fodder. The common species is V. sativa. 
Long exercised in anything, especially in military life and the duties of a soldier; long practiced or experienced; as, a veteran officer or soldier; veteran skill. The insinuating eloquence and delicate flattery of veteran diplomatists and courtiers. Macaulay. 
To prohibit; to negative; also, to refuse assent to, as a legislative bill, and thus prevent its enactment; as, to veto an appropriation bill. 
Venerable from antiquity; ancient; old. [Obs.] 
To be irritated; to fret. [R.] Chapman. 
One who vexes or troubles. 
A vexillum. 
A road way. Via Lactea Etym: [L.] (Anat.), the Milky Way, or Galaxy. See Galaxy, 1. -- Via media Etym: [L.] (Theol.), the middle way; -- a name applied to their own position by the Anglican high-churchmen, as being between the Roman Catholic Church and what they term extreme Protestantism. 
By the way of; as, to send a letter via Queenstown to London. 
Capable of living; born alive and with such form and development of organs as to be capable of living; -- said of a newborn, or a prematurely born, infant. 
A voyage; a journey. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gower. 
A small bottle, usually of glass; a little glass vessel with a narrow aperture intended to be closed with a stopper; as, a vial of medicine. [Written also phial.] Take thou this vial, being then in bed, And this distilled liquor thou off. Shak. 
To put in a vial or vials. "Precious vialed liquors." Milton. 
An article of food; provisions; food; victuals; -- used chiefly in the plural. Cowper. Viands of various kinds allure the taste. Pope. 
Of or pertaining to roads; happening on roads. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to a journey or traveling. 
A genus of motile bacteria characterized by short, slightly sinuous filaments and an undulatory motion; also, an individual of this genus. 
The incumbent of an appropriated benefice. 
A vicar. [Obs.] 
A kind of instrument for holding work, as in filing. Same as Vise. 
To hold or squeeze with a vice, or as if with a vice. Shak. The coachman's hand was viced between his upper and lower thigh. De Quincey. 
In the place of; in the stead; as, A. B. was appointed postmaster vice C. D. resigned. 
Denoting one who in certain cases may assume the office or duties of a superior; designating an officer or an office that is second in rank or authority; as, vice president; vice agent; vice consul, etc. Vice admiral. Etym: [Cf. F. vice-amiral.] (a) An officer holding rank next below an admiral. By the existing laws, the rank of admiral and vice admiral in the United States Navy will cease at the death of the present incumbents. (b) A civil officer, in Great Britain, appointed by the lords commissioners of the admiralty for exercising admiralty jurisdiction within their respective districts. -- Vice admiralty, the office of a vice admiral. -- Vice-admiralty court, a court with admiralty jurisdiction, established by authority of Parliament in British possessions beyond the seas. Abbott. -- Vice chamberlain, an officer in court next in rank to the lord chamberlain. [Eng.] -- Vice chancellor. (a) (Law) An officer next in rank to a chancellor. (b) An officer in a university, chosen to perform certain duties, as the conferring of degrees, in the absence of the chancellor. (c) (R. C. Ch.) The cardinal at the head of the Roman Chancery. -- Vice consul Etym: [cf. F. vice-consul], a subordinate officer, authorized to exercise consular functions in some particular part of a district controlled by a consul. -- Vice king, one who acts in the place of a king; a viceroy. -- Vice legate Etym: [cf. F. vice-légat], a legate second in rank to, or acting in place of, another legate. -- Vice presidency, the office of vice president. -- Vice president Etym: [cf. F. vice-président], an officer next in rank below a president. 
Vicious; corrupt. [Obs.] Shak. 
Fault; defect; coarseness. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Near; neighboring; vicinal. [R.] Glanvill. 
An alkaloid ex tracted from the seeds of the vetch (Vicia sativa) as a white crystalline substance. 
To make a victim of; to sacrifice; to immolate. [Obs.] Bullokar. 
Victorious. "The victor Greeks." Pope. 
Food; diet. 
One of a class of temporal officers who originally represented the bishops, but later erected their offices into fiefs, and became feudal nobles. 
imperative sing. of L. videre, to see; -- used to direct attention to something; as, vide supra, see above. 
Of or pertaining to the state of a widow; widowed. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 
A contest for superiority; competition; rivalry; strife; also, a challenge; a wager. [Obs.] We 'll all to church together instantly, And then a vie for boys. J. Fletcher. 
An old stringed instrument played upon with a wheel; a hurdy- gurdy. 
A person appointed to inspect highways, fences, or the like, and to report upon the same. 
In the Orkney and Shetland Islands, beef and mutton hung and dried, but not salted. [Scot.] [Written also vivda.] Jamieson. 
Vigilance. [Obs.] Fuller. 
A vigil. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To invigorate. [Obs.] Feltham. 
One belonging to the pirate crews from among the Northmen, who plundered the coasts of Europe in the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries. Of grim Vikings, and the rapture Of the sea fight, and the capture, And the life of slavery. Longfellow. 
Villainy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Vile. [Obs.] "That vild race." Spenser. -- Vild"ly, adv. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Abusive; scurrilous; defamatory; vile. [Obs.] "Viled speeches." Hayward. 
To value lightly; to depreciate; to slight; to despise. To vilipend the art of portrait painting. Longfellow. 
Vileness; baseness. [Obs.] Kennet. 
A small collection of houses; a village. "Every manor, town, or vill." Sir M. Hale. Not should e'er the crested fowl From thorp or vill his matins sound for me. Wordsworth. 
A country seat; a country or suburban residence of some pretensions to elegance. Dryden. Cowper. 
A villain. [R.] 
, pl. of Villus. 
One of the minute papillary processes on certain vascular membranes; a villosity; as, villi cover the lining of the small intestines of many animals and serve to increase the absorbing surface. 
Power; force; energy; spirit; activity; vigor. [Colloq.] 
A long, slender, flexible shoot or branch. 
Of or pertaining to vines; containing vines. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 
Having leaves like those of the vine; ornamented with vine leaves. "Vined and figured columns." Sir H. Wotton. 
A vinedresser. [Obs.] 
A sprig or branch. [Archaic] Halliwell. 
Of or pertaining to wine; as, vinic alcohol. 
Vinnewed. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
Vinous. 
Of or pertaining to wine; having the qualities of wine; as, a vinous taste. 
A place where wine is sold. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
Wine, --chiefly used in Pharmacy in the name of solutions of some medicinal substance in wine; as: vina medicata, medicated wines; vinum opii, wine of opium. 
Of or pertaining to vines; producing, or abounding in, vines. P. Fletcher. 
The hypothetical radical C2H3, regarded as the characteristic residue of ethylene and that related series of unsaturated hydrocarbons with which the allyl compounds are homologous. 
A stringed musical instrument formerly in use, of the same form as the violin, but larger, and having six strings, to be struck with a bow, and the neck furnished with frets for stopping the strings. Me softer airs befit, and softer strings Of lute, or viol still, more apt for mournful things. Milton. 
A genus of polypetalous herbaceous plants, including all kinds of violets. 
An instrument in form and use resembling the violin, but larger, and a fifth lower in compass. Viola da braccio Etym: [It., viol for the arm], the tenor viol, or viola, a fifth lower than the violin. Its part is written in the alto clef, hence it is sometimes called the alto. -- Viola da gamba Etym: [It., viol for the leg], an instrument resembling the viola, but larger, and held between the knees. It is now rarely used. -- Viola da spalla Etym: [It., viol for the shoulder], an instrument formerly used, resembling the viola, and intermediate in size between the viola and the viola da gamba. -- Viola di amore Etym: [It., viol of love: cf. F. viole d'amour], a viol, larger than the viola, having catgut strings upon, and brass or steel wires under, the keyboard. These, sounding sympathetically with the strings, yield a peculiarly soft and silvery sound. It is now seldom used. 
A vial. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Any plant or flower of the genus Viola, of many species. The violets are generally low, herbaceous plants, and the flowers of many of the species are blue, while others are white or yellow, or of several colors, as the pansy (Viola tricolor). 
Dark blue, inclining to red; bluish purple; having a color produced by red and blue combined. Violet shell (Zoöl.), any species of Ianthina; -- called also violet snail. See Lanthina. -- Violet wood, a name given to several kinds of hard purplish or reddish woods, as king wood, myall wood, and the wood of the Andira violacea, a tree of Guiana. 
A small instrument with four strings, played with a bow; a fiddle. 
Any one of numerous species of Old World venomous makes belonging to Vipera, Clotho, Daboia, and other genera of the family Viperidæ. There came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand. Acts xxviii. 3. 
An arrow, having a rotary motion, formerly used with the crossbow. Cf. Vireton. Gower. 
Green; not withered. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 
Any one of numerous species of American singing birds belonging to Vireo and allied genera of the family Vireonidæ. In many of the species the back is greenish, or olive-colored. Called also greenlet. 
A wand. See Verge. [Obs.] 
See Verger. [Obs.] 
See Virgo. 
To act the virgin; to be or keep chaste; -- followed by it. See It, 5. [Obs.] "My true lip hath virgined it e'er since [that kiss]." Shak. 
An old French variety of pear, of little value. 
A certain function relating to a system of forces and their points of application, -- first used by Clausius in the investigation of problems in molecular physics. 
Green. [Obs.] The virid marjoram Her sparkling beauty did but see. Crompton. 
Having the nature, properties, or qualities, of an adult man; characteristic of developed manhood; hence, masterful; forceful; specifically, capable of begetting; -- opposed to womanly, feminine, and puerile; as, virile age, virile power, virile organs. 
A ring surrounding a bugle or hunting horn. 
Having a nauseous odor; fetid; poisonous. [R.] 
A love of the fine arts; a taste for curiosities. J. Spence. An article, or piece, of virtu, an object of art or antiquity; a curiosity, such as those found in museums or private collections. I had thoughts, in my chambers to place it in view, To be shown to my friends as a piece of virtù. Goldsmith. 
One of the orders of the celestial hierarchy. Thrones, dominations, princedoms, virtues, powers. Milton. Cardinal virtues. See under Cardinal, a. -- In, or By, virtue of, through the force of; by authority of. "He used to travel through Greece by virtue of this fable, which procured him reception in all the towns." Addison. "This they shall attain, partly in virtue of the promise made by God, and partly in virtue of piety." Atterbury. -- Theological virtues, the three virtues, faith, hope, and charity. See 1 Cor. xiii. 13. 
See Vis. 
To indorse, after examination, with the word visé, as a passport; to visé. 
The face, countenance, or look of a person or an animal; -- chiefly applied to the human face. Chaucer. "A visage of demand." Shak. His visage was so marred more than any man. Isa. lii. 14. Love and beauty still that visage grace. Waller. 
To face. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A mask. See Visor. 
To mask. 
Sticking or adhering, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscous; glutinous; sticky; tenacious; clammy; as, turpentine, tar, gums, etc., are more or less viscid. 
A clear, viscous, tasteless substance extracted from the mucilaginous sap of the mistletoe (Viscum album), holly, etc., and constituting an essential ingredient of birdlime. 
A genus of parasitic shrubs, including the mistletoe of Europe. 
One of the organs, as the brain, heart, or stomach, in the great cavities of the body of an animal; -- especially used in the plural, and applied to the organs contained in the abdomen. 
An instrument consisting of two jaws, closing by a screw, lever, cam, or the like, for holding work, as in filing. [Written also vice.] 
An indorsement made on a passport by the proper authorities of certain countries on the continent of Europe, denoting that it has been examined, and that the person who bears it is permitted to proceed on his journey; a visa. 
To examine and indorse, as a passport; to visa. 
A divinity of the modern Hindoo trimurti, or trinity. He is regarded as the preserver, while Brahma is the creator, and Siva the destroyer of the creation. 
The faculty of seeing; sight; one of the five senses, by which colors and the physical qualities of external objects are appreciated as a result of the stimulating action of light on the sensitive retina, an expansion of the optic nerve. 
To see in a vision; to dream. For them no visioned terrors daunt, Their nights no fancied specters haunt. Sir W. Scott. 
To come to for the purpose of chastising, rewarding, comforting; to come upon with reward or retribution; to appear before or judge; as, to visit in mercy; to visit one in wrath. [God] hath visited and redeemed his people. Like i. 68. 
To make a visit or visits; to maintain visiting relations; to practice calling on others. 
Liable or subject to be visited or inspected. "All hospitals built since the Reformation are visitable by the king or lord chancellor." Ayliffe. 
A light cape or short cloak of silk or lace worn by women in summer. 
Of or pertaining to the sight; visual. [Obs.] I can not satisfy myself how men should be so little surprised about this visive faculty. Berkeley. 
Neighborhood; vicinity; venue. See Venue. 
The mink. 
Wearing a visor; masked. Visored falsehood and base forgery. Milton. 
A view; especially, a view through or between intervening objects, as trees; a view or prospect through an avenue, or the like; hence, the trees or other objects that form the avenue. The finished garden to the view Its vistas opens, and its alleys green. Thomson. In the groves of their academy, at the end of every vista, you see nothing but the gallows. Burke. The shattered tower which now forms a vista from his window. Sir W. Scott. 
A vista; a prospect. [R.] Gay. Through the long visto of a thousand years. Young. 
To make visual, or visible; to see in fancy. [Written also visualise.] No one who has not seen them [glaciers] can possibly visualize them. Lubbock. 
A vital part; one of the vitals. [R.] 
A form of machine for exhibiting animated pictures. 
A genus of plants including all true grapevines. 
See Durukuli. 
Having the nature and qualities of glass; glasslike; -- distinguished from ceramic. 
One of the oil tubes in the fruit of umbelliferous plants. 
Brisk; vivacious; with spirit; -- a direction to perform a passage in a brisk and lively manner. 
A vivarium. "That . . . vivary of fowls and beasts." Donne. 
See Vifda. 
Long live, that is, success to; as, vive le roi, long live the king; vive la bagatelle, success to trifles or sport. 
Lively; animated; forcible. [Obs.] Bacon. 
In a lively manner. [Obs.] If I see a thing vively represented on the stage. B. Jonson. 
Provisions; victuals. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] I 'll join you at three, if the vivers can tarry so long. Sir W. Scott. 
A disease of brute animals, especially of horses, seated in the glands under the ear, where a tumor is formed which sometimes ends in suppuration. 
The quality or state of being vivid; vividness. [R.] 
To endue with life; to make to be living; to quicken; to animate. Sitting on eggs doth vivify, not nourish. Bacon. 
Of or pertaining to a vixen; resembling a vixen. 
To wit; that is; namely. 
A mask; a visor. [Archaic] "A grotesque vizard." Sir W. Scott. To mislead and betray them under the vizard of law. Milton. 
A councilor of state; a high executive officer in Turkey and other Oriental countries. [Written also visier, vizir, and vizer.] Grand vizier, the chief minister of the Turkish empire; -- called also vizier-azem. 
See Vizier. 
See Visor. 
A vocal sound; specifically, a purely vocal element of speech, unmodified except by resonance; a vowel or a diphthong; a tonic element; a tonic; -- distinguished from a subvocal, and a nonvocal. 
A short or weak utterance; a faint or feeble sound, as that heard on separating the lips in pronouncing p or b. Rush. -- Voc"u*lar, a. 
A Russian drink distilled from rye. 
An inlet, bay, or creek; -- so called in the Orkney and Shetland Islands. Jamieson. 
Same as Vugg. 
Sound of the kind or quality heard in speech or song in the consonants b, v, d, etc., and in the vowels; sonant, or intonated, utterance; tone; -- distinguished from mere breath sound as heard in f, s, sh, etc., and also whisper. 
To utter with sonant or vocal tone; to pronounce with a narrowed glottis and rapid vibrations of the vocal cords; to speak above a whisper. 
To clamor; to cry out. [Obs.] South. 
Uttered with voice; pronounced with vibrations of the vocal cords; sonant; -- said of a sound uttered with the glottis narrowed. Voiced stop, Voice stop (Phon.), a stopped consonant made with tone from the larynx while the mouth organs are closed at some point; a sonant mute, as b, d, g hard. 
Of no legal force or effect, incapable of confirmation or ratification; null. Cf. Voidable, 2. Void space (Physics), a vacuum. 
An empty space; a vacuum. Pride, where wit fails, steps in to our defense, And fills up all the mighty void of sense. Pope. 
To be emitted or evacuated. Wiseman. 
Having the inner part cut away, or left vacant, a narrow border being left at the sides, the tincture of the field being seen in the vacant space; -- said of a charge. 
One of the ordinaries, much like the flanch, but less rounded and therefore smaller. 
Light; giddy. [Obs.] They wroughten all their lust volage. Chaucer. 
Represented as flying, or having the wings spread; as, an eagle volant. Volant piece (Anc. Armor), an adjustable piece of armor, for guarding the throat, etc., in a joust. 
Of or pertaining to the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot. 
See Volery. [Obs.] 
A deal at cards that draws all the tricks. Swift. 
To win all the tricks by a vole. Pope. 
Any one of numerous species of micelike rodents belonging to Arvicola and allied genera of the subfamily Arvicolinæ. They have a thick head, short ears, and a short hairy tail. 
The common sort of people; the crowd; the mob. [Obs.] Fuller. 
To discharge with, or as with, a volley. 
A game played by volleying a large inflated ball with the hands over a net 7 ft. 6 in. high. 
In the greater part of Russia, a division for local government consisting of a group of mirs, or village communities; a canton. 
To baptize; -- used in contempt by the Reformers. [Obs.] Tyndale. 
A circular tread; a gait by which a horse going sideways round a center makes two concentric tracks. 
The unit of electro-motive force; -- defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893 and by United States Statute as, that electro-motive force which steadily applied to a conductor whose resistance is one ohm will produce a current of one ampère. It is practically equivalent to 
A turning; a time; -- chiefly used in phrases signifying that the part is to be repeated one, two, or more times; as, una volta, once. Seconda volta, second time, points to certain modifications in the close of a repeated strain. 
Turn, that is, turn over the leaf. Volti subito Etym: [It.] (Mus.), turn over quickly. 
Amount, fullness, quantity, or caliber of voice or tone. Atomic volume, Molecular volume (Chem.), the ratio of the atomic and molecular weights divided respectively by the specific gravity of the substance in question. -- Specific volume (Physics & Chem.), the quotient obtained by dividing unity by the specific gravity; the reciprocal of the specific gravity. It is equal (when the specific gravity is referred to water at 4º C. as a standard) to the number of cubic centimeters occupied by one gram of the substance. 
Any one of numerous species of large, handsome marine gastropods belonging to Voluta and allied genera. 
A spiral scroll which forms the chief feature of the Ionic capital, and which, on a much smaller scale, is a feature in the Corinthian and Composite capitals. See Illust. of Capital, also Helix, and Stale. 
A saclike envelope of certain fungi, which bursts open as the plant develops. 
A genus of minute, pale-green, globular, organisms, about one fiftieth of an inch in diameter, found rolling through water, the motion being produced by minute colorless cilia. It has been considered as belonging to the flagellate Infusoria, but is now referred to the vegetable kingdom, and each globule is considered a colony of many individuals. The commonest species is Volvox globator, often called globe animalcule. 
A lurcher. [Prov. Eng.] 
Of or pertaining to the vomer. 
See Brucine. 
To eject the contents of the stomach by the mouth; to puke; to spew. 
That which excites vomiting; an emetic. He gives your Hollander a vomit. Shak. Black vomit. (Med.) See in the Vocabulary. -- Vomit nut, nux vomica. 
The yellow fever in its worst form, when it is usually attended with black vomit. See Black vomit. 
Of or pertaining to voodooism, or a voodoo; as, voodoo incantations. 
A supposed collection of particles of very subtile matter, endowed with a rapid rotary motion around an axis which was also the axis of a sun or a planet. Descartes attempted to account for the formation of the universe, and the movements of the bodies composing it, by a theory of vortices. 
Consecrated by a vow or promise; consequent on a vow; devoted; promised. Votary resolution is made equipollent to custom. Bacon. 
One devoted, consecrated, or engaged by a vow or promise; hence, especially, one devoted, given, or addicted, to some particular service, worship, study, or state of life. "You are already love's firm votary." Shak. 'T was coldness of the votary, not the prayer, that was in fault. Bp. Fell. But thou, my votary, weepest thou Emerson. 
To express or signify the mind, will, or preference, either viva voce, or by ballot, or by other authorized means, as in electing persons to office, in passing laws, regulations, etc., or in deciding on any proposition in which one has an interest with others. The vote for a duelist is to assist in the prostration of justice, and, indirectly, to encourage the crime. L. Beecher. To vote on large principles, to vote honestly, requires a great amount of information. F. W. Robertson. 
One who votes; one who has a legal right to vote, or give his suffrage; an elector; a suffragist; as, as, an independent voter. 
a. & n. from Vote, v. Voting paper, a form of ballot containing the names of more candidates than there are offices to be filled, the voter making a mark against the preferred names. [Eng.] 
One who makes a vow. [Obs.] Chapman. 
Given by vow, or in fulfillment of a vow; consecrated by a vow; devoted; as, votive offerings; a votive tablet. "Votive incense." Keble. We reached a votive stone, that bears the name Of Aloys Reding. Wordsworth. Embellishments of flowers and votive garlands. Motley. Votive medal, a medal struck in grateful commemoration of some auspicious event. -- Votive offering, an offering in fulfillment of a religious vow, as of one's person or property. -- Vo"tive*ly, adv. -- Vo"tive*ness, n. 
To call into court to warrant and defend, or to make good a warranty of title. He vouches the tenant in tail, who vouches over the common vouchee. Blackstone. 
Warrant; attestation. [Obs.] The vouch of very malice itself. Shak. 
To make a vow, or solemn promise. Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay. Eccl. v. 5. 
A vocal, or sometimes a whispered, sound modified by resonance in the oral passage, the peculiar resonance in each case giving to each several vowel its distinctive character or quality as a sound of speech; -- distinguished from a consonant in that the latter, whether made with or without vocality, derives its character in every case from some kind of obstructive action by the mouth organs. Also, a letter or character which represents such a sound. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 5, 146-149. 
Of or pertaining to a vowel; vocal. 
One who makes a vow. Bale. 
A voice. Vox humana ( Etym: [L., human voice] (Mus.), a reed stop in an organ, made to imitate the human voice. 
To take a voyage; especially, to sail or pass by water. A mind forever Voyaging through strange seas of thought alone. Wordsworth. 
To travel; to pass over; to traverse. With what pain [I] voyaged the unreal, vast, unbounded deep. Milton. 
The appearance of truth; verisimilitude. 
The god of fire, who presided over the working of metals; -- answering to the Greek Hephæstus. 
A vulgar person; one who has vulgar ideas. Used also adjectively. 
A genus of Carnivora including the foxes. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained from a lichen (Cetraria vulpina) as a yellow or red crystalline substance which on decomposition yields pulvinic acid. 
The external parts of the female genital organs; sometimes, the opening between the projecting parts of the external organs. 
A kind of clamp with gimlet points for holding a barrel head while the staves are being closed around it. Knight. 
a. & n. from Vie. -- Vy"ing*ly, adv. 
The grivet. 
The burning bush; -- said to be called after a quack medicine made from it. 
To move staggeringly or unsteadily from one side to the other; to vacillate; to move the manner of a rotating disk when the axis of rotation is inclined to that of the disk; -- said of a turning or whirling body; as, a top wabbles; a buzz saw wabbles. wobble. 
A hobbling, unequal motion, as of a wheel unevenly hung; a staggering to and fro. 
Inclined to wabble; wabbling. 
Woad. [Obs.] 
See Waddy. 
To walk with short steps, swaying the body from one side to the other, like a duck or very fat person; to move clumsily and totteringly along; to toddle; to stumble; as, a child waddles when he begins to walk; a goose waddles. Shak. She drawls her words, and waddles in her pace. Young. 
To trample or tread down, as high grass, by walking through it. [R.] Drayton. 
To attack or beat with a waddy. 
Woad. [Obs.] Mortimer. 
To pass or cross by wading; as, he waded . 
The act of wading. [Colloq.] 
Any long-legged bird that wades in the water in search of food, especially any species of limicoline or grallatorial birds; -- called also wading bird. See Illust. g, under Aves. 
a. & n. from Wade, v. Wading bird. (Zoöl.) See Wader, 2. 
A coarse, hairy, woolen cloth, formerly used for garments by the poor, and for various other purposes. [Spelled also wadmal, wadmeal, wadmoll, wadmel, etc.] Beck (Draper's Dict.). Sir W. Scott. 
A kind of pledge or mortgage. [Written also wadsett.] 
A ravine through which a brook flows; the channel of a water course, which is dry except in the rainy season. 
A wave. [Obs.] Spenser. 
The kittiwake. [Scot.] 
A thin cake made of flour and other ingredients. Wafers piping hot out of the gleed. Chaucer. The curious work in pastry, the fine cakes, wafers, and marchpanes. Holland. A woman's oaths are wafers -- break with making B. Jonson. 
To seal or close with a wafer. 
To be moved, or to pass, on a buoyant medium; to float. And now the shouts waft near the citadel. Dryden. 
A knot, or stop, in the middle of a flag. [Written also wheft.] 
The act of waving; a wavelike motion; a waft. R. Browning. An angry wafture of your hand. Shak. 
To move one way and the other with quick turns; to shake to and fro; to move vibratingly; to cause to vibrate, as a part of the body; as, to wag the head. No discerner durst wag his tongue in censure. Shak. Every one that passeth thereby shall be astonished, and wag his head. Jer. xviii. 16. 
A man full of sport and humor; a ludicrous fellow; a humorist; a wit; a joker. We wink at wags when they offend. Dryden. A counselor never pleaded without a piece of pack thread in his hand, which he used to twist about a finger all the while he was speaking; the wags used to call it the thread of his discourse. Addison. 
A small East Indian wild cat (Felis wagati), regarded by some as a variety of the leopard cat. 
To give security for the performance of. Burrill. To wage battle (O. Eng. Law), to give gage, or security, for joining in the duellum, or combat. See Wager of battel, under Wager, n. Burrill. -- To wage one's law (Law), to give security to make one's law. See Wager of law, under Wager, n. 
To bind one's self; to engage. [Obs.] 
See Waggel. 
A contract by which two parties or more agree that a certain sum of money, or other thing, shall be paid or delivered to one of them, on the happening or not happening of an uncertain event. Bouvier. 
To hazard on the issue of a contest, or on some question that is to be decided, or on some casualty; to lay; to stake; to bet. And wagered with him Pieces of gold 'gainst this which he wore. Shak. 
To make a bet; to lay a wager. 'T was merry when You wagered on your angling. Shak. 
A compensation given to a hired person for services; price paid for labor; recompense; hire. See Wage, n., 2. The wages of sin is death. Rom. vi. 23. Wages fund (Polit. Econ.), the aggregate capital existing at any time in any country, which theoretically is unconditionally destined to be paid out in wages. It was formerly held, by Mill and other political economists, that the average rate of wages in any country at any time depended upon the relation of the wages fund to the number of laborers. This theory has been greatly modified by the discovery of other conditions affecting wages, which it does not take into account. Encyc. Brit. 
The young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus), formerly considered a distinct species. [Prov. Eng.] 
The pied wagtail. [Prov. Eng.] 
To reel, sway, or move from side to side; to move with a wagging motion; to waddle. Why do you go nodding and waggling so L'Estrange. 
To move frequently one way and the other; to wag; as, a bird waggles his tail. 
The Dipper, or Charles's Wain. 
To transport in a wagon or wagons; as, goods are wagoned from city to city. 
To wagon goods as a business; as, the man wagons between Philadelphia and its suburbs. 
The panda. 
A dark blue scombroid food fish (Acanthocibium solandri or petus) of Florida and the West Indies. 
Oppressed with weight; crushed; weighed down. [Obs.] Tusser. 
Goods found of which the owner is not known; originally, such goods as a pursued thief threw away to prevent being apprehended, which belonged to the king unless the owner made pursuit of the felon, took him, and brought him to justice. Blackstone. 
A waif. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To choose; to select. [Obs.] "Wailed wine and meats." Henryson. 
To lament; to bewail; to grieve over; as, to wail one's death. Shak. 
To express sorrow audibly; to make mournful outcry; to weep. Therefore I will wail and howl. Micah i. 8. 
Loud weeping; violent lamentation; wailing. "The wail of the forest." Longfellow. 
One who wails or laments. 
Capable of being plowed or cultivated; arable; tillable. [Obs.] Cowell. 
A piece of plank two yard Bailey. 
A covering of canvas or tarpaulin for the hammocks, stowed on the nettings, between the quarterdeck and the forecastle. 
Hautboys, or oboes, played by town musicians; not used in the singular. [Obs.] Halliwell. 
a. & n. from Wait, v. In waiting, in attendance; as, lords in waiting. [Eng.] -- Waiting gentlewoman, a woman who waits upon a person of rank. -- Waiting maid, Waiting woman, a maid or woman who waits upon another as a personal servant. 
A woman put out of the protection of the law. See Waive, v. t., 3 (b), and the Note. 
To desert; to abandon. Burrill. 
To turn aside; to recede. [Obs.] To waive from the word of Solomon. Chaucer. 
The act of waiving, or not insisting on, some right, claim, or privilege. 
The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any track; as, the wake of an army. This effect followed immediately in the wake of his earliest exertions. De Quincey. Several humbler persons . . . formed quite a procession in the dusty wake of his chariot wheels. Thackeray. 
Not sleeping; indisposed to sleep; watchful; vigilant. Dissembling sleep, but wakeful with the fright. Dryden. -- Wake"ful*ly, adv. -- Wake"ful*ness, n. 
To wake; to cease to sleep; to be awakened. Early, Turnus wakening with the light. Dryden. 
One who wakens. 
One who wakes. 
The granting or dedication of property in trust for a pious purpose, that is, to some object that tends to the good of mankind, as to support a mosque or caravansary, to provide for support of one's family, kin, or neighbors, to benefit some particular person or persons and afterward the poor, etc.; also, the trust so created, or the property in trust. 
The person creating a wakf. 
See Welaway. [Obs.] 
A forest; -- used as a termination of names. See Weald. 
A timber bolted to a row of piles to secure them together and in position. Knight. 
A horse imported from New South Wales; also, any Australian horse. [Colloq.]  Kipling. 
Same as Wale, n., 4. 
To subject, as cloth or yarn, to the fulling process; to full. [Obs. or Scot.] To walk the plank, to walk off the plank into the water and be drowned; -- an expression derived from the practice of pirates who extended a plank from the side of a ship, and compelled those whom they would drown to walk off into the water; figuratively, to vacate an office by compulsion. Bartlett. 
Fit to be walked on; capable of being walked on or over. [R.] Swift. 
A forest officer appointed to walk over a certain space for inspection; a forester. 
See Valkyria. 
A kind of knot often used at the end of a rope; a wall knot; a wale. Wall knot, a knot made by unlaying the strands of a rope, and making a bight with the first strand, then passing the second over the end of the first, and the third over the end of the second and through the bight of the first; a wale knot. Wall knots may be single or double, crowned or double-crowned. 
A leguminous tree (Eperua falcata) of Demerara, with pinnate leaves and clusters of red flowers. The reddish brown wood is used for palings and shingles. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 
A black variety of the jaguar; -- called also tapir tiger. [Written also walla.] 
One who builds walls. 
The wels. 
One who carries a wallet; a foot traveler; a tramping beggar. [Colloq.] Wright. 
To move quickly, but with great effort; to gallop. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
A quick, rolling movement; a gallop. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
To roll; esp., to roll in anything defiling or unclean. "Wallow thyself in ashes." Jer. vi. 26. 
A kind of rolling walk. One taught the toss, and one the new French wallow. Dryden. 
To roll; to spout; to boil up. [Obs.] Holland. 
The fruit or nut of any tree of the genus Juglans; also, the tree, and its timber. The seven or eight known species are all natives of the north temperate zone. 
A very large marine mammal (Trichecus rosmarus) of the Seal family, native of the Arctic Ocean. The male has long and powerful tusks descending from the upper jaw. It uses these in procuring food and in fighting. It is hunted for its oil, ivory, and skin. It feeds largely on mollusks. Called also morse. 
To roll or wallow; to welter. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
Liable to roll over; crank; as, a walty ship. [R.] Longfellow. 
A dance performed by two persons in circular figures with a whirling motion; also, a piece of music composed in triple measure for this kind of dance. 
To dance a waltz. 
To wallow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An exclamation of grief. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
Disturbance of the stomach; a feeling of nausea. Holland. 
To move irregularly or awkwardly; to wamble, or wabble. [Prov. Eng.] 
The common American eider. 
Beads made of shells, used by the North American Indians as money, and also wrought into belts, etc., as an ornament. Round his waist his belt of wampum. Longfellow. Girded with his wampum braid. Whittier. 
Won. Chaucer. 
Having a pale or sickly hue; languid of look; pale; pallid. "Sad to view, his visage pale and wan." Spenser. My color . . . [is] wan and of a leaden hue. Chaucer. Why so pale and wan, fond lover Suckling. With the wan moon overhead. Longfellow. 
The quality of being wan; wanness. [R.] Tinged with wan from lack of sleep. Tennyson. 
To grow wan; to become pale or sickly in looks. "All his visage wanned." Shak. And ever he mutter'd and madden'd, and ever wann'd with despair. Tennyson. 
To travel over without a certain course; to traverse; to stroll through. [R.] "[Elijah] wandered this barren waste." Milton. 
Long and flexible, like a wand. [Prov. Eng.] Brockett. 
To cause to decrease. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
A sharp or uneven edge on a board that is cut from a log not perfectly squared, or that is made in the process of squaring. See Wany, a. 
See Whang. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
A boat for conveying provisions, tools, etc.; -- so called by Maine lumbermen. [Written also wangun.] Bartlett. 
A pillow for the cheek; a pillow. [Obs. & R.] His bright helm was his wanger. Chaucer. 
A boomerang. 
The act or process of waning, or decreasing. This earthly moon, the Church, hath fulls and wanings, and sometimes her eclipses. Bp. Hall. 
A word of uncertain signification, used only in the phrase with a wanion, apparently equivalent to with a vengeance, with a plague, or with misfortune. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Latimer. 
Not to be depended on; weak; unstable. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
In a wan, or pale, manner. 
Made wan, or pale. 
A depression in coal strata, hollowed out before the subsequent deposition took place. [Eng.] 
A colloquial contraction of was not. 
To cause to become wanton; also, to waste in wantonness. [Obs.] 
A surcingle, or strap of leather, used for binding a load upon the back of a beast; also, a leather tie; a short wagon rope. [Prov. Eng.] 
To wane. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To wane; to wither. [Obs.] 
To beat; to whap. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Sir T. Malory. 
A blow or beating; a whap. [Prov. Eng.] 
Cast down; crushed by misery; dejected. [Obs.] 
The American elk (Cervus Canadensis). It is closely related to the European red deer, which it somewhat exceeds in size. 
See Wapatoo. 
To cause to shake; to tremble; to move tremulously, as from weakness; to totter. [Obs.] 
A gudgeon. [Prov. Eng.] 
A small yelping cur. [Prov. Eng.] 
Ware; aware. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A condition of belligerency to be maintained by physical force. In this sense, levying war against the sovereign authority is treason. 
To make war; to invade or attack a state or nation with force of arms; to carry on hostilities; to be in a state by violence. Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against it. Isa. vii. 1. Why should I war without the walls of Troy Shak. Our countrymen were warring on that day! Byron. 
Warworn. 
See Wormil. 
A quavering modulation of the voice; a musical trill; a song. And he, the wondrous child, Whose silver warble wild Outvalued every pulsing sound. Emerson. 
The duty of keeping watch and ward (see the Note under Watch, n., 1) with a horn to be blown upon any occasion of surprise. Burrill. 
A large, hard pear, chiefly used for baking and roasting. [Obs.] I would have had him roasted like a warden. Beau. & Fl. Warden pie, a pie made of warden pears. [Obs.] Shak. 
Designating, or pertaining to, a kind of glass inclosure for keeping ferns, mosses, etc., or for transporting growing plants from a distance; as, a Wardian case of plants; -- so named from the inventor, Nathaniel B. Ward, an Englishman. 
Wore. 
To wear, or veer. See Wear. 
Seaweed. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ware goose (Zoöl.), the brant; -- so called because it feeds on ware, or seaweed. [Prov. Eng.] 
Articles of merchandise; the sum of articles of a particular kind or class; style or class of manufactures; especially, in the plural, goods; commodities; merchandise. "Retails his wares at wakes." Shak. "To chaffer with them and eke to sell them their ware." Chaucer. It the people of the land bring ware or any victuals on the Sabbath day to sell, that we would not buy it of them on the Sabbath, or on the holy day. Neh. x. 31. 
A ware; taking notice; hence, wary; cautious; on one's guard. See Beware. [Obs.] She was ware and knew it bet [better] than he. Chaucer. Of whom be thou ware also. 2. Tim. iv. 15. He is ware enough; he is wily and circumspect for stirring up any sedition. Latimer. The only good that grows of passed fear Is to be wise, and ware of like again. Spenser. 
The state of being ware or aware; heed. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
To make ware; to warn; to take heed of; to beware of; to guard against. "Ware that I say." Chaucer. God . . . ware you for the sin of avarice. Chaucer. Then ware a rising tempest on the main. Dryden. 
Cautiously; warily. [Obs.] They bound him hand and foot with iron chains, And with continual watch did warely keep. Spenser. 
See 4th Ware. 
In a wary manner. 
A South American monkey, one of the sapajous. 
To protect from the effects of; hence, to cure; to heal. [Obs.] My brother shall be warished hastily. Chaucer. Varro testifies that even at this day there be some who warish and cure the stinging of serpents with their spittle. Holland. 
To be cured; to recover. [Obs.] Your daughter . . . shall warish and escape. Chaucer. 
Work; a building. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser. 
Warlike. Burns. 
Having yellow or red for a basis, or in their composition; -- said of colors, and opposed to cold which is of blue and its compounds. 
The act of warming, or the state of being warmed; a warming; a heating. [Colloq.] Dickens. 
One who, or that which, warms. 
In a warm manner; ardently. 
The glowing effect which arises from the use of warm colors; hence, any similar appearance or effect in a painting, or work of color. 
To refuse. [Written also wern, worn.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One who warns; an admonisher. 
A warrener. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 
To tow or move, as a vessel, with a line, or warp, attached to a buoy, anchor, or other fixed object. 
To wind yarn off bobbins for forming the warp of a web; to wind a warp on a warp beam. 
The threads which are extended lengthwise in the loom, and crossed by the woof. 
A kind of knitting in which a number of threads are interchained each with one or more contiguous threads on either side. 
To make war upon. [Obs.] Fairfax. "When a man warrayeth truth." Chaucer. 
Worse. [Obs.] They say the world is much warre than it wont. Spenser. 
The keeper of a warren. 
See Warye. [Obs.] 
An Australian lorikeet (Trichoglossus multicolor) remarkable for the variety and brilliancy of its colors; -- called also blue- bellied lorikeet, and blue-bellied parrot. 
See Warye. [Obs.] 
A small, usually hard, tumor on the skin formed by enlargement of its vascular papillæ, and thickening of the epidermis which covers them. 
Having little knobs on the surface; verrucose; as, a warted capsule. 
An American fresh-water mussel (Quadrula pustulosa). Its shell is used in making buttons. 
To curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex. [Obs.] [Spelled also warrie, warry, and wary.] "Whom I thus blame and warye." Chaucer. 
The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. 
A bundle of straw, or other material, to relieve the pressure of burdens carried upon the head. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Washy; weak. [Obs.] Their bodies of so weak and wash a temper. Beau. & Fl. 
Appearing as if overlaid with a thin layer of different color; -- said of the colors of certain birds and insects. 
p. p. of Wash. Chaucer. 
A fitting, usually having a plug, applied to a cistern, tub, sink, or the like, and forming the outlet opening. 
A variety of allanite from Sweden supposed to contain wasium. 
A rare element supposed by Bahr to have been extracted from wasite, but now identified with thorium. 
Any one of numerous species of stinging hymenopterous insects, esp. any of the numerous species of the genus Vespa, which includes the true, or social, wasps, some of which are called yellow jackets. 
The second person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, imperfect tense; -- now used only in solemn or poetical style. See Was. 
To damage, impair, or injure, as an estate, voluntarily, or by suffering the buildings, fences, etc., to go to decay. 
To procure or sustain a reduction of flesh; -- said of a jockey in preparation for a race, etc. 
Spoil, destruction, or injury, done to houses, woods, fences, lands, etc., by a tenant for life or for years, to the prejudice of the heir, or of him in reversion or remainder. 
A kind of white and fine bread or cake; -- called also wastel bread, and wastel cake. [Obs.] Roasted flesh or milk and wasted bread. Chaucer. The simnel bread and wastel cakes, which were only used at the tables of the highest nobility. Sir W. Scott. 
A spendthrift. [Obs.] 
A waster; a thief. [Obs. or R.] [Written also wastour.] Chaucer. Southey. 
To serve the purpose of a watchman by floating properly in its place; -- said of a buoy. To watch over, to be cautiously observant of; to inspect, superintend, and guard. 
A dog kept to watch and guard premises or property, and to give notice of the approach of intruders. 
A solution in water of a gaseous or readily volatile substance; as, ammonia water. U. S. Pharm. 
Money paid for transportation of goods, etc., by water. [Eng.] 
A unit of power or activity equal to 107 C.G.S. units of power, or to work done at the rate of one joule a second. An English horse power is approximately equal to 746 watts. 
Any one of several species of honey eaters belonging to Anthochæra and allied genera of the family Meliphagidæ. These birds usually have a large and conspicuous wattle of naked skin hanging down below each ear. They are natives of Australia and adjacent islands. 
To cry as a cat; to squall; to wail. [Written also wawl.] The helpless infant, coming wauling and crying into the world. Sir W. Scott. 
Worse. [Scot.] Murder and waur than number. Sir W. Scott. 
See Wave. Sir H. Wotton. Burke. 
A vibration propagated from particle to particle through a body or elastic medium, as in the transmission of sound; an assemblage of vibrating molecules in all phases of a vibration, with no phase repeated; a wave of vibration; an undulation. See Undulation. 
Having undulations like waves; -- said of one of the lines in heraldry which serve as outlines to the ordinaries, etc. 
A sapling left standing in a fallen wood. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
The snow goose. [Canadian, & Local U. S.] 
See Waivure. [R.] 
Undulating on the border or surface; waved. 
Woe. [Obs.] 
A wave. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 
See Waul. Shak. 
Cerumen, or earwax. See Cerumen. (b) A waxlike composition used for uniting surfaces, for excluding air, and for other purposes; as, sealing wax, grafting wax, etching wax, etc. (c) A waxlike composition used by shoemakers for rubbing their thread. (d) (Zoöl.) A substance similar to beeswax, secreted by several species of scale insects, as the Chinese wax. See Wax insect, below. (e) (Bot.) A waxlike product secreted by certain plants. See Vegetable wax, under Vegetable. (f) (Min.) 
To smear or rub with wax; to treat with wax; as, to wax a thread or a table. Waxed cloth, cloth covered with a coating of wax, used as a cover, of tables and for other purposes; -- called also wax cloth. -- Waxed end, a thread pointed with a bristle and covered with shoemaker's wax, used in sewing leather, as for boots, shoes, and the like; -- called also wax end. Brockett. 
Quality or state of being waxy. 
Resembling wax in appearance or consistency; viscid; adhesive; soft; hence, yielding; pliable; impressible. "Waxy to persuasion." Bp. Hall. Waxy degeneration (Med.), amyloid degeneration. See under Amyloid. -- Waxy kidney, Waxy liver, etc. (Med.), a kidney or liver affected by waxy degeneration. 
Away. [Obs. or Archaic] Chaucer. To do way, to take away; to remove. [Obs.] "Do way your hands." Chaucer. -- To make way with, to make away with. See under Away. [Archaic] 
The timbers on which a ship is launched. 
To go or travel to; to go in, as a way or path. [Obs.] "In land not wayed." Wyclif. 
To move; to progress; to go. [R.] On a time as they together wayed. Spenser. 
Used to the way; broken. [R.] A horse that is not well wayed; he starts at every bird that flies out the hedge. Selden. 
Weak. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To lie in wait for; to meet or encounter in the way; especially, to watch for the passing of, with a view to seize, rob, or slay; to beset in ambush. Falstaff, Bardolph, Peto, and Gadshill shall rob those men that we have already waylaid. Shak. She often contrived to waylay him in his walks. Sir W. Scott. 
Tending towards lower prices; as, a weak market. 
To make or become weak; to weaken. [R.] Never to seek weaking variety. Marston. 
To become weak or weaker; to lose strength, spirit, or determination; to become less positive or resolute; as, the patient weakened; the witness weakened on cross-examination. "His notion weakens, his discernings are lethargied." Shak. 
In a weak manner; with little strength or vigor; feebly. 
Not strong of constitution; infirm; feeble; as, a weakly woman; a man of a weakly constitution. 
The mark of a stripe. See Wale. 
To mark with stripes. See Wale. 
To promote the weal of; to cause to be prosperous. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
A wood or forest; a wooded land or region; also, an open country; -- often used in place names. Fled all night long by glimmering waste and weald, And heard the spirits of the waste and weald Moan as she fled. Tennyson. Weald clay (Geol.), the uppermost member of the Wealden strata. See Wealden. 
Full of wealth; wealthy; prosperous. [R.] Sir T. More. -- Wealth"ful*ly, adv. [R.] 
A weanling; a young child. I, being but a yearling wean. Mrs. Browning. 
A weanling. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A thorn, prickle, or sting with which many plants are furnished. Concealed weapons. See under Concealed. -- Weapon salve, a salve which was supposed to cure a wound by being applied to the weapon that made it. [Obs.] Boyle. 
Same as Weir. 
To cause to go about, as a vessel, by putting the helm up, instead of alee as in tacking, so that the vessel's bow is turned away from, and her stern is presented to, the wind, and, as she turns still farther, her sails fill on the other side; to veer. 
Capable of being worn; suitable to be worn. 
That may be wearied. 
To grow tired; to become exhausted or impatient; as, to weary of an undertaking. 
Any one of various species of small carnivores belonging to the genus Putorius, as the ermine and ferret. They have a slender, elongated body, and are noted for the quickness of their movements and for their bloodthirsty habit in destroying poultry, rats, etc. The ermine and some other species are brown in summer, and turn white in winter; others are brown at all seasons. Malacca weasel, the rasse. -- Weasel coot, a female or young male of the smew; -- so called from the resemblance of the head to that of a weasel. Called also weasel duck. -- Weasel lemur, a short-tailed lemur (Lepilemur mustelinus). It is reddish brown above, grayish brown below, with the throat white. 
The American merganser; -- called also weaser sheldrake. [Local, U. S.] 
Given to sensual indulgence; gluttonous. [Obs.] Joye. 
A particular method or pattern of weaving; as, the cassimere weave. 
A weaver bird. 
Thin; sharp; withered; wizened; as, a weazen face. They were weazen and shriveled. Dickens. 
A weaver. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A band of webbing used to regulate the extension of the hood. 
To unite or surround with a web, or as if with a web; to envelop; to entangle. 
Having the toes united by a membrane, or web; as, the webbed feet of aquatic fowls. 
One who forms webs; a weaver; a webster. [Obs.] 
Of or pertaining to a web or webs; like a web; filled or covered with webs. Bats on their webby wings in darkness move. Crabbe. 
The standard unit of electrical quantity, and also of current. See Coulomb, and Amp. [Obs.] 
See Web, n., 8. 
A pledge; a pawn. [Obs.] Gower. Piers Plowman. Let him be ware, his neck lieth to wed [i. e., for a security]. Chaucer. 
To contact matrimony; to marry. "When I shall wed." Shak. 
See Wether. Sir W. Scott. 
Weather. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A solid of five sides, having a rectangular base, two rectangular or trapezoidal sides meeting in an edge, and two triangular ends. 
To cut, as clay, into wedgelike masses, and work by dashing together, in order to expel air bubbles, etc. Tomlinson. 
Like a wedge; wedge-shaped. 
A little; a bit, as of space, time, or distance. [Obs. or Scot.] 
Very small; little. [Colloq. & Scot.] A little wee face, with a little yellow beard. Shak. 
A sudden illness or relapse, often attended with fever, which attacks women in childbed. [Scot.] 
An animal unfit to breed from. 
To reject as unfit for breeding purposes. 
One who, or that which, weeds, or frees from anything noxious. 
Dressed in weeds, or mourning garments. [R. or Colloq.] She was as weedy as in the early days of her mourning. Dickens. 
A period of seven days, usually that reckoned from one Sabbath or Sunday to the next. I fast twice in the week. Luke xviii. 12. 
A publication issued once in seven days, or appearing once a week. 
Once a week; by hebdomadal periods; as, each performs service weekly. 
Well. [Obs. or Scot.] 
A whirlpool. [Obs.] 
To think; to imagine; to fancy. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. Milton. I have lost more than thou wenest. Chaucer. For well I ween, Never before in the bowers of light Had the form of an earthly fay been seen. J. R. Drake. Though never a dream the roses sent Of science or love's compliment, I ween they smelt as sweet. Mrs. Browning. 
The lapwing; the wipe; -- so called from its cry. 
imp. of Weep, for wept. Chaucer. 
The capuchin. See Capuchin, 3 (a). 
See Weasel. 
Wet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To know; to wit. [Obs.] Tyndale. Spenser. 
Any one of several species of edible marine fishes belonging to the genus Trachinus, of the family Trachinidæ. They have a broad spinose head, with the eyes looking upward. The long dorsal fin is supported by numerous strong, sharp spines which cause painful wounds. 
Any one of numerous species of snout beetles, or Rhynchophora, in which the head is elongated and usually curved downward. Many of the species are very injurious to cultivated plants. The larvæ of some of the species live in nuts, fruit, and grain by eating out the interior, as the plum weevil, or curculio, the nut weevils, and the grain weevil (see under Plum, Nut, and Grain). The larvæ of other species bore under the bark and into the pith of trees and various other plants, as the pine weevils (see under Pine). See also Pea weevil, Rice weevil, Seed weevil, under Pea, Rice, and Seed. 
See Weasel. 
imp. & p. p. of Wave. 
A thing waved, waived, or cast away; a waif. [Obs.] "A forlorn weft." Spenser. 
Texture. [Obs.] Grew. 
A corruption of Way, used only in the phrase under weigh. An expedition was got under weigh from New York. Thackeray. The Athenians . . . hurried on board and with considerable difficulty got under weigh. Jowett (Thucyd.). 
A certain quantity estimated by weight; an English measure of weight. See Wey. 
The resistance against which a machine acts, as opposed to the power which moves it. [Obs.] Atomic weight. (Chem.) See under Atomic, and cf. Element. -- Dead weight, Feather weight, Heavy weight, Light weight, etc. See under Dead, Feather, etc. -- Weight of observation (Astron. & Physics), a number expressing the most probable relative value of each observation in determining the result of a series of observations of the same kind. 
To assign a weight to; to express by a number the probable accuracy of, as an observation. See Weight of observations, under Weight. 
To foretell the fate of; to predict; to destine to. [Scot.] Jamieson. 
Same as Wegotism. 
See Waive. [Obs.] Gower. 
A New Zealand rail (Ocydromus australis) which has wings so short as to be incapable of flight. 
A small New Zealand owl (Sceloglaux albifacies). It has short wings and long legs, and lives chiefly on the ground. 
The meadow pipit. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Welsh. [R.] 
To wield. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
An herb (Reseda luteola) related to mignonette, growing in Europe, and to some extent in America; dyer's broom; dyer's rocket; dyer's weed; wild woad. It is used by dyers to give a yellow color. [Written also woald, wold, and would.] 
The state of being welded; the joint made by welding. Butt weld. See under Butt. -- Scarf weld, a joint made by overlapping, and welding together, the scarfed ends of two pieces. 
One who welds, or unites pieces of iron, etc., by welding. 
A process for the recovery or regeneration of manganese dioxide in the manufacture of chlorine, by means of milk of lime and the oxygen of the air; -- so called after the inventor. 
Prosperity; happiness; well-being; weal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To welk, or wither. [Obs.] 
To wither; to fade; also, to decay; to decline; to wane. [Obs.] When ruddy Phwelk in west. Spenser. The church, that before by insensible degrees welked and impaired, now with large steps went down hill decaying. Milton. 
A pustule. See 2d Whelk. 
A whelk. [R.] 
See Whelked. 
The visible regions of the air; the vault of heaven; the sky. On the welkne shoon the sterres lyght. Chaucer. The fair welkin foully overcast. Spenser. When storms the welkin rend. Wordsworth. 
A hole or excavation in the earth, in mining, from which run branches or galleries. 
To issue forth, as water from the earth; to flow; to spring. "[Blood] welled from out the wound." Dryden. "[Yon spring] wells softly forth." Bryant. From his two springs in Gojam's sunny realm, Pure welling out, he through the lucid lake Of fair Dambea rolls his infant streams. Thomson. 
To pour forth, as from a well. Spenser. 
Safe; as, a chip warranted well at a certain day and place. Burrill. 
The king parrakeet See under King. 
The sheatfish; -- called also waller. 
Of or pertaining to Wales, or its inhabitants. [Sometimes written also Welch.] Welsh flannel, a fine kind of flannel made from the fleece of the flocks of the Welsh mountains, and largely manufactured by hand. -- Welsh glaive, or Welsh hook, a weapon of war used in former times by the Welsh, commonly regarded as a kind of poleax. Fairholt. Craig. -- Welsh mortgage (O. Eng. Law), a species of mortgage, being a conveyance of an estate, redeemable at any time on payment of the principal, with an understanding that the profits in the mean time shall be received by the mortgagee without account, in satisfaction of interest. Burrill. -- Welsh mutton, a choice and delicate kind of mutton obtained from a breed of small sheep in Wales. -- Welsh onion (Bot.), a kind of onion (Allium fistulosum) having hollow inflated stalks and leaves, but scarcely any bulb, a native of Siberia. It is said to have been introduced from Germany, and is supposed to have derived its name from the German term wälsch foreign. -- Welsh parsley, hemp, or halters made from hemp. [Obs. & Jocular] J. Fletcher. -- Welsh rabbit. See under Rabbit. 
The natives or inhabitants of Wales. 
A narrow border, as of an ordinary, but not extending around the ends. Welt joint, a joint, as of plates, made with a welt, instead of by overlapping the edges. See Weld, n., 1 (d). 
To furnish with a welt; to sew or fasten a welt on; as, to welt a boot or a shoe; to welt a sleeve. 
To wilt. [R.] 
imp. of Weld, to wield. Chaucer. 
To wither; to wilt. [R.] Weltered hearts and blighted . . . memories. I. Taylor. 
Of, pertaining to, or designating, the most heavily weighted race in a meeting; as, a welter race; the welter stakes. 
Sorrow or sadness over the present or future evils or woes of the world in general; sentimental pessimism. 
The abdomen; the uterus; the womb. [Obs.] 
Spot; blemish; harm; hurt. [Obs.] Wyclif. Withouten wem of you, through foul and fair. Chaucer. 
To stain; to blemish; to harm; to corrupt. [Obs.] 
An indolent, encysted tumor of the skin; especially, a sebaceous cyst. 
To frequent the company of wenches, or women of ill fame. 
p. p. of Wene. Chaucer. 
To direct; to betake;- used chiefly in the phrase to wend one's way. Also used reflexively. "Great voyages to wend." Surrey. 
A large extent of ground; a perambulation; a circuit. [Obs.] Burrill. 
imp. of Wene. Chaucer. 
The language of the Wends. 
A Slavic tribe which once occupied the northern and eastern parts of Germany, of which a small remnant exists. 
To ween. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Weanel. [Obs.] Tusser. 
A sand snake (Charina plumbea) of Western North America, of the family Erycidæ. 
imp. & p. p. of Wend; -- now obsolete except as the imperfect of go, with which it has no etymological connection. See Go. To the church both be they went. Chaucer. 
Course; way; path; journey; direction. [Obs.] "At a turning of a wente." Chaucer. But here my weary team, nigh overspent, Shall breathe itself awhile after so long a went. Spenser. He knew the diverse went of mortal ways. Spenser. 
imp. of Weep. 
Weapon. [Obs.] 
imp. & p. p. of Weep. 
To work. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To wear. See 3d Wear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A weir. See Weir. [Obs.] Chaucer. Sir P. Sidney. 
To guard; to protect. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The imperfect indicative plural, and imperfect subjunctive singular and plural, of the verb be. See Be. 
The price of a man's head; a compensation paid of a man killed, partly to the king for the loss of a subject, partly to the lord of a vassal, and partly to the next of kin. It was paid by the murderer. [Written also weregeld, weregelt, etc.] Blackstone. 
To refuse. [Obs.] He is too great a niggard that will wern A man to light a candle at his lantern. Chaucer. 
War. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To warray. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Verst. 
, The second person singular, indicative and subjunctive moods, imperfect tense, of the verb be. It is formed from were, with the ending -t, after the analogy of wast. Now used only in solemn or poetic style. 
A wart. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Weasand. [Obs.] 
Washed. Chaucer. 
See Weasand. [Obs.] 
Lying toward the west; situated at the west, or in a western direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the west, or coming from the west; as, a west course is one toward the west; an east and west line; a west wind blows from the west. This shall be your west border. Num. xxxiv. 6. West end, the fashionable part of London, commencing from the east, at Charing Cross. 
Westward. 
Passing to the west. Toward heaven's descent had sloped his westering wheel. Milton. 
Dizzy; giddy. [Prov. Eng.] 
Employing, or done by means of, water or some other liquid; as, the wet extraction of copper, in distinction from dry extraction in which dry heat or fusion is employed. 
To fill or moisten with water or other liquid; to sprinkle; to cause to have water or other fluid adherent to the surface; to dip or soak in a liquid; as, to wet a sponge; to wet the hands; to wet cloth. "[The scene] did draw tears from me and wetted my paper." Burke. Ye mists and exhalations, that now rise . . . Whether to deck with clouds the uncolored sky, Or wet the thirsty earth with falling showers. Milton. To wet one's whistle, to moisten one's throat; to drink a dram of liquor. [Colloq.] Let us drink the other cup to wet our whistles. Walton. 
A castrated ram. 
See Weevil. 
To grow; to wax. [Obs.] Chaucer. "Each wexing moon." Dryden. 
Waxed. Chaucer. 
Wax. [Obs.] "Yelwe as wex." Chaucer. 
Way; road; path. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To weigh. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A certain measure of weight. [Eng.] "A weye of Essex cheese." Piers Plowman. 
To wail. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To waive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Weasand. [Obs.] 
To strike; to beat; to give a heavy or resounding blow to; to thrash; to make with whacks. [Colloq.] Rodsmen were whackingtheir way through willow brakes. G. W. Cable. 
To strike anything with a smart blow. To whack away, to continue striking heavy blows; as, to whack away at a log. [Colloq.] 
A smart resounding blow. [Colloq.] 
An American tree, the winged elm. (Ulmus alata). 
To lash with stripes; to wale; to thrash; to drub. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] Halliwell. Bartlett. 
Any aquatic mammal of the order Cetacea, especially any one of the large species, some of which become nearly one hundred feet long. Whales are hunted chiefly for their oil and baleen, or whalebone. 
A vessel or person employed in the whale fishery. 
One who whales, or beats; a big, strong fellow; hence, anything of great or unusual size. [Colloq. U. S.] 
A light color of the iris in horses; wall-eye. [Written also whaul.] 
Having the iris of light color; -- said of horses. "Whally eyes." Spenser. 
A breeze fly. 
When. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A leather thong. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] 
To beat. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] 
The bank of a river, or the shore of the sea. [Obs.] "The fat weed that roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf." Shak. Wharf boat, a kind of boat moored at the bank of a river, and used for a wharf, in places where the height of the water is so variable that a fixed wharf would be useless. [U. S.] Bartlett. -- Wharf rat. (Zoöl.) (a) The common brown rat. (b) A neglected boy who lives around the wharfs. [Slang] 
A mode of facing sea walls and embankments with planks driven as piles and secured by ties. Knight. 
A kind of fine sand from the banks of the Trent, used as a polishing powder. [Eng.] 
Something; thing; stuff. [Obs.] And gave him for to feed, Such homely what as serves the simple Spenser. 
Why For what purpose On what account [Obs.] What should I tell the answer of the knight. Chaucer. But what do I stand reckoning upon advantages and gains lost by the misrule and turbulency of the prelates What do I pick up so thriftily their scatterings and diminishings of the meaner subject Milton. 
Whatsoever; whosoever; whatever; anything that. [Obs.] Whatso he were, of high or low estate. Chaucer. Whatso the heaven in his wide vault contains. Spenser. 
Same as Whall. 
See Whaap. [Prov. Eng.] 
A pustule; a whelk. Wiseman. 
A mine. 
A cereal grass (Triticum vulgare) and its grain, which furnishes a white flour for bread, and, next to rice, is the grain most largely used by the human race. 
Whether. [Obs.] 
A firework which, while burning, is caused to revolve on an axis by the reaction of the escaping gases. (f) (Poetry) The burden or refrain of a song. 
The tire of a wheel. 
Circular; suitable to rotation. 
A quantity; a goodly number. [Scot.] "A wheen other dogs." Sir W. Scott. 
To breathe hard, and with an audible piping or whistling sound, as persons affected with asthma. "Wheezing lungs." Shak. 
An ordinary whisper exaggerated so as to produce the hoarse sound known as the "stage whisper." It is a forcible whisper with some admixture of tone. 
Breathing with difficulty and with a wheeze; wheezing. Used also figuratively. 
See Waft, n., 4. 
Any one numerous species of large marine gastropods belonging to Buccinum and allied genera; especially, Buccinum undatum, common on the coasts both of Europe and North America, and much used as food in Europe. Whelk tingle, a dog whelk. See under Dog. 
Having whelks; whelky; as, whelked horns. Shak. 
One of the longitudinal ribs or ridges on the barrel of a capstan or a windless; -- usually in the plural; as, the whelps of a windlass. 
To bring forth young; -- said of the female of the dog and some beasts of prey. 
To bring forth, as cubs or young; to give birth to. Unless she had whelped it herself, she could not have loved a thing better. B. Jonson. Did thy foul fancy whelp so black a scheme Young. 
Whereas; while [Obs.] Whenas, if they would inquire into themselves, they would find no such matter. Barrow. 
Whencesoever. [R.] 
Whereas. And flight and die is death destroying death; Where fearing dying pays death servile breath. Shak. 
Place; situation. [Obs. or Colloq.] Finding the nymph asleep in secret where. Spenser. 
A liquor made from the pulp of crab apples after the verjuice is expressed; -- sometimes called crab wherry. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 
Wheresoever. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Which (of two); which one (of two); -- used interrogatively and relatively. [Archaic] Now choose yourself whether that you liketh. Chaucer. One day in doubt I cast for to compare Whether in beauties' glory did exceed. Spenser. Whether of them twain did the will of his father Matt. xxi. 31. 
A sound like a half-formed whistle, expressing astonishment, scorn, or dislike. Whew duck, the European widgeon. [Prov. Eng.] 
To whistle with a shrill pipe, like a plover. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
The European widgeon. [Prov. Eng.] 
The serum, or watery part, of milk, separated from the more thick or coagulable part, esp. in the process of making cheese. In this process, the thick part is called curd, and the thin part whey. 
Of the nature of, or containing, whey; resembling whey; wheyish. Bacon. 
Whether one or another; whether one or the other; which; that one (of two or more) which; as, whichever road you take, it will lead you to town. 
Whither. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The marysole, or sail fluke. 
To emit whiffs, as of smoke; to puff. 
Acidulated whey, sometimes mixed with buttermilk and sweet herbs, used as a cooling beverage. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
One of a political party which grew up in England in the seventeenth century, in the reigns of Charles I. and II., when great contests existed respecting the royal prerogatives and the rights of the people. Those who supported the king in his high claims were called Tories, and the advocates of popular rights, of parliamentary power over the crown, and of toleration to Dissenters, were, after 1679, called Whigs. The terms Liberal and Radical have now generally superseded Whig in English politics. See the note under Tory. 
Of or pertaining to the Whigs. 
To cause to pass away pleasantly or without irksomeness or disgust; to spend or pass; -- usually followed by away. The lovely lady whiled the hours away. Longfellow. 
To loiter. [R.] Spectator. 
Until; till. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] I may be conveyed into your chamber; I'll lie under your bed while midnight. Beau. & Fl. 
During the time that; while. [Archaic] Chaucer. Fuller. Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him. Matt. v. 25. 
A kind of mollusk, a whelk. [Prov. Eng.] 
Which. [Obs. or Scot.] 
Formerly; once; of old; erewhile; at times. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. Whilom, as olde stories tellen us, There was a duke that highte Theseus. Chaucer. 
While. [Archaic] Whilst the emperor lay at Antioch. Gibbon. The whilst, in the meantime; while. [Archaic.] Shak. 
The European widgeon. [Prov. Eng.] 
A large capstan or vertical drum turned by horse power or steam power, for raising ore or water, etc., from mines, or for other purposes; -- called also whim gin, and whimsey. Whim gin (Mining), a whim. See Whim, 2. -- Whim shaft (Mining), a shaft through which ore, water, etc., is raised from a mine by means of a whim. 
To be subject to, or indulge in, whims; to be whimsical, giddy, or freakish. [R.] Congreve. 
Full of whims; whimsical. The study of Rabbinical literature either finds a man whimmy or makes him so. Coleridge. 
A whimsey. 
The English bilberry; -- so called because it grows on moors among the whins, or furze. Dr. Prior. 
To utter a plaintive cry, as some animals; to mean with a childish noise; to complain, or to tell of sorrow, distress, or the like, in a plaintive, nasal tone; hence, to complain or to beg in a mean, unmanly way; to moan basely. "Whining plovers." Spenser. The hounds were . . . staying their coming, but with a whining accent, craving liberty. Sir P. Sidney. Dost thou come here to whine Shak. 
To utter or express plaintively, or in a mean, unmanly way; as, to whine out an excuse. 
A plaintive tone; the nasal, childish tone of mean complaint; mean or affected complaint. 
One who, or that which, whines. 
To whine. [Scot.] Burns. 
To utter the ordinary call or cry of a horse; to neigh. 
The ordinary cry or call of a horse; a neigh. "The stately horse . . . stooped with a low whinny." Tennyson. 
Abounding in whin, gorse, or furze. A fine, large, whinny, . . . unimproved common. Sterne. 
To move nimbly; to start or turn suddenly and do something; to whisk; as, he whipped around the corner. With speed from thence he whipped. Sackville. Two friends, traveling, met a bear upon the way; the one whips up a tree, and the other throws himself flat upon the ground. L'Estrange. 
A kind of hard-twisted or braided cord, sometimes used for making whiplashes. 
Whipped. 
To whirl round, or revolve, with a whizzing noise; to fly or more quickly with a buzzing or whizzing sound; to whiz. The partridge bursts away on whirring wings. Beattie. 
To hurry a long with a whizzing sound. [R.] This world to me is like a lasting storm, Whirring me from my friends. Shak. 
A buzzing or whizzing sound produced by rapid or whirling motion; as, the whir of a partridge; the whir of a spinning wheel. 
A whorl. See Whorl. 
To whir. [Obs.] 
A game at cards; whist. [Obs.] Taylor (1630). 
To move nimbly at with velocity; to make a sudden agile movement. 
See Wisp. 
A flock of snipe. 
Be silent; be still; hush; silence. 
A certain game at cards; -- so called because it requires silence and close attention. It is played by four persons (those who sit opposite each other being partners) with a complete pack of fifty-two cards. Each player has thirteen cards, and when these are played out, he hand is finished, and the cards are again shuffled and distributed. 
To hush or silence. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To be or become silent or still; to be hushed or mute. [R.] Surrey. 
Not speaking; not making a noise; silent; mute; still; quiet. "So whist and dead a silence." Sir J. Harrington. The winds, with wonder whist, Smoothly the waters kissed. Milton. 
The smallest part or particle imaginable; a bit; a jot; an iota; -- generally used in an adverbial phrase in a negative sentence. "Samuel told him every whit." 1 Sam. iii. 18. "Every whit as great." South. So shall I no whit be behind in duty. Shak. It does not me a whit displease. Cowley. 
Any one of numerous species of butterflies belonging to Pieris, and allied genera in which the color is usually white. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage. Black and white. See under Black. -- Flake white, Paris white, etc. See under Flack, Paris, etc. -- White of a seed (Bot.), the albumen. See Albumen, 2. -- White of egg, the viscous pellucid fluid which surrounds the yolk in an egg, particularly in the egg of a fowl. In a hen's egg it is alkaline, and contains about 86 per cent of water and 14 per cent of solid matter, the greater portion of which is egg albumin. It likewise contains a small amount of globulin, and traces of fats and sugar, with some inorganic matter. Heated above 60º C. it coagulates to a solid mass, owing to the albumin which it contains. Parr. -- White of the eye (Anat.), the white part of the ball of the eye surrounding the transparent cornea. 
To make white; to whiten; to whitewash; to bleach. Whited sepulchers, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of . . . uncleanness. Matt. xxiii. 27. So as no fuller on earth can white them. Mark. ix. 3. 
To grow white; to turn or become white or whiter; as, the hair whitens with age; the sea whitens with foam; the trees in spring whiten with blossoms. 
To make white; to bleach; to blanch; to whitewash; as, to whiten a wall; to whiten cloth. The broad stream of the Foyle then whitened by vast flocks of wild swans. Macaulay. 
Leucorrh 
To make a humming or hissing sound, like an arrow or ball flying through the air; to fly or move swiftly with a sharp hissing or whistling sound. [Written also whizz.] It flew, and whizzing, cut the liquid way. Dryden. 
A hissing and humming sound. Like the whiz of my crossbow. Coleridge. 
Stop; stand; hold. See Ho, 2. 
Hubbub. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
Having an undivided hoof, as the horse. 
The objective case of who. See Who. 
The hoopoe. 
To insult with shouts; to chase with derision. And suffered me by the voice of slaves to be Whooped out of Rome. Shak. 
One who, or that which, whooops. Woopher swan. (Zoöl.) See the Note under Swan. 
To hoot. [Obs.] 
Same as Whap. Forby. 
Same as Whap. 
A woman who practices unlawful sexual commerce with men, especially one who prostitutes her body for hire; a prostitute; a harlot. Wyclif. 
To worship false and impure gods. 
To corrupt by lewd intercourse; to make a whore of; to debauch. [R.] Congreve. 
A circle of two or more leaves, flowers, or other organs, about the same part or joint of a stem. 
The whortleberry, or bilberry. See Whortleberry (a). 
The possessive case of who or which. See Who, and Which. Whose daughter art thou tell me, I pray thee. Gen. xxiv. 23. The question whose solution I require. Dryden. 
Whosoever. Piers Plowman. Whoso shrinks or falters now, . . . Brand the craven on his brow! Whittier. 
Hot. [Obs.] Spenser. 
A humming or whirring sound, like that of a body moving through the air with velocity; a whir. 
To whisk along quickly; to hurry. [R.] Whurrying the chariot with them to the shore. Vicars. 
See Whort. 
A young heifer. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
A variant of 1st Wick. 
A bundle of fibers, or a loosely twisted or braided cord, tape, or tube, usually made of soft spun cotton threads, which by capillary attraction draws up a steady supply of the oil in lamps, the melted tallow or wax in candles, or other material used for illumination, in small successive portions, to be burned. But true it is, that when the oil is spent The light goes out, and wick is thrown away. Spenser. 
To strike a stone in an oblique direction. Jamieson. 
Wicked. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. "With full wikke intent." Chaucer. 
Having a wick; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a two-wicked lamp. 
In a wicked manner; in a manner, or with motives and designs, contrary to the divine law or the law of morality; viciously; corruptly; immorally. I have sinned, and I have done wickedly. 2 Sam. xxiv. 17. 
Made of, or covered with, twigs or osiers, or wickerwork. Each one a little wicker basket had, Made of fine twigs, entrailéd curiously. Spenser. 
The space between the pillars, in postand-stall working. Raymond. Wicket door, Wicket gate, a small door or gate; a wicket. See def. 1, above. Bunyan. -- Wicket keeper (Cricket), the player who stands behind the wicket to catch the balls and endeavor to put the batsman out. 
See Leatherwood. 
A rope or halter made of flexible twigs, or withes, as of birch. [Scot.] 
Made, as a vowel, with a less tense, and more open and relaxed, condition of the mouth organs; -- opposed to primary as used by Mr. Bell, and to narrow as used by Mr. Sweet. The effect, as explained by Mr. Bell, is due to the relaxation or tension of the pharynx; as explained by Mr. Sweet and others, it is due to the action of the tongue. The wide of e (eve) is î (îll); of a (ate) is ê (ênd), etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 13-15. 
Having or covering an angle wider than the ordinary; -- applied to certain lenses of relatively short focus. Lenses for ordinary purposes have an angle of 50º or less. Wide-angle lenses may cover as much as 100º and are useful for photographing at short range, but the pictures appear distorted. 
To make wide or wider; to extend in breadth; to increase the width of; as, to widen a field; to widen a breach; to widen a stocking. 
To grow wide or wider; to enlarge; to spread; to extend. Arches widen, and long aisles extend. Pope. 
Moderately wide. Tyndall. 
A woman who has lost her husband by death, and has not married again; one living bereaved of a husband. "A poor widow." Chaucer. Grass widow. See under Grass. -- Widow bewitched, a woman separated from her husband; a grass widow. [Colloq.] Widow-in-mourning (Zoöl.), the macavahu. -- Widow monkey (Zoöl.), a small South American monkey (Callithrix lugens); -- so called on account of its color, which is black except the dull whitish arms, neck, and face, and a ring of pure white around the face. -- Widow's chamber (Eng. Law), in London, the apparel and furniture of the bedchamber of the widow of a freeman, to which she was formerly entitled. 
Widowed. "A widow woman." 1 Kings xvii. 9. "This widow lady." Shak. 
See Whidan bird. 
The quality of being wide; extent from side to side; breadth; wideness; as, the width of cloth; the width of a door. 
Of or pertaining to a widow; vidual. [Obs.] Bale. 
A widow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Capable of being wielded. 
Capable of being wielded; manageable; wieldable; -- opposed to unwieldy. [R.] Johnson. 
Same as Weir. 
Wet; moist; marshy. [Obs.] 
Wiry. [Obs.] "Wiery gold." Peacham. 
Without a wife; unmarried. Chaucer. 
Becoming or life; of or pertaining to a wife. "Wifely patience." Chaucer. With all the tenderness of wifely love. Dryden. 
To censure or rebuke; to hold up to reprobation; to scold. [Slang] 
A kind of canvaslike cotton fabric, used to stiffen and protect the lower part of trousers and of the skirts of women's dresses, etc.; -- so called from Wigan, the name of a town in Lancashire, England. 
A widgeon. [R.] 
, a. Having the head covered with a wig; wearing a wig. 
To move to and fro with a quick, jerking motion; to bend rapidly, or with a wavering motion, from side to side; to wag; to squirm; to wriggle; as, the dog wiggles his tail; the tadpole wiggles in the water. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] 
Act of wiggling; a wriggle. [Colloq.] 
To neigh; to whinny. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 
Weight. [Obs.] 
Swift; nimble; agile; strong and active. [Obs. or Poetic] 'T is full wight, God wot, as is a roe. Chaucer. He was so wimble and so wight. Spenser. They were Night and Day, and Day and Night, Pilgrims wight with steps forthright. Emerson. 
To signal by means of a flag waved from side to side according to a code adopted for the purpose. [Colloq.] 
An Indian cabin or hut, usually of a conical form, and made of a framework of poles covered with hides, bark, or mats; -- called also tepee. [Sometimes written also weekwam.] Very spacious was the wigwam, Made of deerskin dressed and whitened, With the gods of the Dacotahs Drawn and painted on its curtains. Longfellow. 
A temporary mark or boundary, as a bough of a tree set up in marking out or dividing anything, as tithes, swaths to be mowed in common ground, etc.; -- called also wicker. [Prov. Eng.] 
A home; a dwelling. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 
The hut used by the nomadic Indian tribes of the arid regions of the west and southwest United States, typically elliptical in form, with a rough frame covered with reed mats or grass or brushwood. 
Wicked. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Hard to steer; -- said of a vessel. 
An uninhabited and uncultivated tract or region; a forest or desert; a wilderness; a waste; as, the wilds of America; the wilds of Africa. then Libya first, of all her moisture drained, Became a barren waste, a wild of sand. Addison. 
Wildly; as, to talk wild. Shak. 
Become wild. [R.] An old garden plant escaped and wilded. J. Earle. 
To bewilder; to perplex. Long lost and wildered in the maze of fate. Pope. Again the wildered fancy dreams Of spouting fountains, frozen as they rose. Bryant. 
In a wild manner; without cultivation; with disorder; rudely; distractedly; extravagantly. 
A trick or stratagem practiced for insnaring or deception; a sly, insidious; artifice; a beguilement; an allurement. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Eph. vi. 11. Not more almighty to resist our might, Than wise to frustrate all our plots and wiles. Milton. 
Full of wiles; trickish; deceitful. 
See Whelk. [Obs.] 
The legal declaration of a person's mind as to the manner in which he would have his property or estate disposed of after his death; the written instrument, legally executed, by which a man makes disposition of his estate, to take effect after his death; testament; devise. See the Note under Testament, 1. 
To be willing; to be inclined or disposed; to be pleased; to wish; to desire. And behold, there came a leper and worshiped him, saying, Lord if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. And Jesus . . . touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. Matt. viii. 2, 3. 
To exercise an act of volition; to choose; to decide; to determine; to decree. At Winchester he lies, so himself willed. Robert of Brunne. He that shall turn his thoughts inward upon what passes in his own mind when he wills. Locke. I contend for liberty as it signifies a power in man to do as he wills or pleases. Collins. 
One who wills. 
A large North American snipe (Symphemia semipalmata); -- called also pill-willet, will-willet, semipalmated tattler, or snipe, duck snipe, and stone curlew. Carolina willet, the Hudsonian godwit. 
Any tree or shrub of the genus Salix, including many species, most of which are characterized often used as an emblem of sorrow, desolation, or desertion. "A wreath of willow to show my forsaken plight." Sir W. Scott. Hence, a lover forsaken by, or having lost, the person beloved, is said to wear the willow. And I must wear the willow garland For him that's dead or false to me. Campbell. 
To open and cleanse, as cotton, flax, or wool, by means of a willow. See Willow, n., 2. 
Same as 1st Willow, 2. 
To wish; to desire. [Obs.] "He willneth no destruction." Chaucer. 
2d pers. sing. of Will. 
To begin to wither; to lose freshness and become flaccid, as a plant when exposed when exposed to drought, or to great heat in a dry day, or when separated from its root; to droop;. to wither. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.] 
A kind of carpet woven with loops like the Brussels, but differing from it in having the loops cut so as to form an elastic velvet pile; -- so called because made originally at Wilton, England. 
Willow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Full of wiles, tricks, or stratagems; using craft or stratagem to accomplish a purpose; mischievously artful; subtle. "Wily and wise." Chaucer. "The wily snake." Milton. This false, wily, doubling disposition of mind. South. 
An instrument for boring holes, turned by a handle. Specifically: (a) A gimlet. " It is but like the little wimble, to let in the greater auger." Selden. (b) A stonecutter's brace for boring holes in stone. (c) An auger used for boring in earth. 
To bore or pierce, as with a wimble. "A foot soldier . . . wimbled also a hole through said coffin." Wood. 
Active; nimble.[Obs.] Spenser. 
To lie in folds; also, to appear as if laid in folds or plaits; to ripple; to undulate. "Wimpling waves." Longfellow. For with a veil, that wimpled everywhere, Her head and face was hid. Spenser. With me through . . . meadows stray, Where wimpling waters make their way. Ramsay. 
To extract, as ore or coal. Raymond. 
To gain the victory; to be successful; to triumph; to prevail. Nor is it aught but just That he, who in debate of truth hath won, should win in arms. Milton. To win of, to be conqueror over. [Obs.] Shak. -- To win on or upon. (a) To gain favor or influence with. "You have a softness and beneficence winning on the hearts of others." Dryden. (b) To gain ground on. "The rabble . . . will in time win upon power." Shak. 
The act of one who winces. 
A reel used in dyeing, steeping, or washing cloth; a winch. It is placed over the division wall between two wince pits so as to allow the cloth to descend into either compartment. at will. Wince pit, Wince pot, a tank or a pit where cloth in the process of dyeing or manufacture is washed, dipped in a mordant, or the like. 
One who, or that which, winces, shrinks, or kicks. 
Linsey-woolsey. 
To wince; to shrink; to kick with impatience or uneasiness. 
A kick, as of a beast, from impatience or uneasiness. Shelton. 
The act of washing cloth, dipping it in dye, etc., with a wince. Wincing machine. (a) A wince. Ure. (b) A succession of winces. See Wince. Knight. 
The act of winding or turning; a turn; a bend; a twist; a winding. 
A disease of sheep, in which the intestines are distended with air, or rather affected with a violent inflammation. It occurs immediately after shearing. 
To blow; to sound by blowing; esp., to sound with prolonged and mutually involved notes. "Hunters who wound their horns." Pennant. Ye vigorous swains, while youth ferments your blood, . . . Wind the shrill horn. Pope. That blast was winded by the king. Sir W. Scott. 
See 3d Windlass. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
One in a flight of steps which are curved in plan, so that each tread is broader at one end than at the other; -- distinguished from flyer. 
To fan; to clean grain with a fan. [Prov. Eng.] 
A blow taking away the breath. [Slang] 
To wither; to fail. [Obs.] Holland. 
The redwing. [Prov. Eng.] 
The shutter, casement, sash with its fittings, or other framework, which closes a window opening. 
Having windows or openings. [R.] "Looped and windowed raggedness." Shak. 
One who drinks much wine. Prov. xxiii. 20. -- Wine"bib`bing, n. 
A place where grapes are converted into wine. 
One of the broad, thin, anterior lobes of the foot of a pteropod, used as an organ in swimming. (b) (Bot.) Any membranaceous expansion, as that along the sides of certain stems, or of a fruit of the kind called samara. (c) (Bot.) Either of the two side petals of a papilionaceous flower. 
Furnished with a leaflike appendage, as the fruit of the elm and the ash, or the stem in certain plants; alate. 
One of the casks stowed in the wings of a vessel's hold, being smaller than such as are stowed more amidships. Totten. 
To cause (the eyes) to wink.[Colloq.] 
In a winking manner; with the eye almost closed. Peacham. 
A rectangular rent made in cloth; -- called also winkle-hole. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 
One who wins, or gains by success in competition, contest, or gaming. 
To separate chaff from grain. Winnow not with every wind. Ecclus. v. 9. 
A windrow. 
To pass the winter; to hibernate; as, to winter in Florida. Because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more part advised to depart thence. Acts xxvii. 12. 
To keep, feed or manage, during the winter; as, to winter young cattle on straw. 
Suitable to winter; resembling winter, or what belongs to winter; brumal; hyemal; cold; stormy; wintery. Touch our chilled hearts with vernal smile, Our wintry course do thou beguile. Keble. 
Having the taste or qualities of wine; vinous; as, grapes of a winy taste. Dampier. 
A small shaft sunk from one level to another, as for the purpose of ventilation. 
The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] 
A piece generally projecting from a rotating or swinging piece, as an axle or rock shaft, for the purpose of raising stampers, lifting rods, or the like, and leaving them to fall by their own weight; a kind of cam. 
To whirl; to eddy. [R.] The waters went wirbling above and around. Owen. Meredith. 
To work [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To pass, or to draw off, (as steam) through narrow ports, or the like, thus reducing its pressure or force by friction. 
Certainly; really; indeed. [Obs.] "As wis God helpe me." Chaucer. 
To think; to suppose; to imagine; -- used chiefly in the first person sing. present tense, I wis. See the Note under Ywis. [Obs. or Poetic] "Howe'er you wis." R. Browning. Nor do I know how long it is (For I have lain entranced, I wis). Coleridge. 
See Wizard. 
The class of ancient Hebrew writings which deal reflectively with general ethical and religious topics, as distinguished from the prophetic and liturgical literature, and from the law. It is comprised chiefly in the books of Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiasticus, Ecclesiastes, and Wisdom of Solomon. The "wisdom" (Hokhmah) of these writings consists in detached sage utterances on concrete issues of life, without the effort at philosophical system that appeared in the later Hellenistic reflective writing beginning with Philo Judæus. 
Way of being or acting; manner; mode; fashion. "All armed in complete wise." Spenser. To love her in my beste wyse. Chaucer. This song she sings in most commanding wise. Sir P. Sidney. Let not these blessings then, sent from above, Abused be, or spilt in profane wise. Fairfax. 
In a wise manner; prudently; judiciously; discreetly; with wisdom. And wisely learn to curb thy sorrows wild. Milton. 
Capable or worthy of being wished for; desirable. Udall. 
One who wishes or desires; one who expresses a wish. Shak. 
According to desire; longingly; with wishes. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chapman. 
A whisket, or basket. [Prov. Eng.] Ainsworth. 
Certainly. [Obs.] "God so wisly have mercy on me." Chaucer. 
Formed of a wisp, or of wisp; as, a wispen broom. [Obs.] 
To show; to teach; to inform; to guide; to direct. [Obs.] Ere we depart I shall thee so well wisse That of mine house ne shalt thou never misse. Chaucer. 
Knew. 
A small South American monkey; a marmoset. [Written also wistiti, and ouistiti.] 
Attentively; observingly. [Obs.] Shak. 
To know; to learn. "I wot and wist alway." Chaucer. 
Lit., wise men; specif. (A.-S. Hist.), 
A cone of paper which is placed in a vessel of lard or other fat, and used as a taper. [Prov. Eng.] 
A certain curve of the third order, described by Maria Agnesi under the name versiera. 
To bewitch; to fascinate; to enchant. [I 'll] witch sweet ladies with my words and looks. Shak. Whether within us or without The spell of this illusion be That witches us to hear and see. Lowell. 
To reproach; to blame; to censure; also, to impute as blame. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser. Though that I be jealous, wite me not. Chaucer. There if that I misspeak or say, Wite it the ale of Southwark, I you pray. Chaucer. 
Blame; reproach. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. 
pl. pres. of Wit. Chaucer. 
Wise; sensible. [R.] Chapman. 
See Withe. 
With denotes or expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the like. It is used especially: -- 
With; -- put after its object, at the end of sentence or clause in which it stands. [Obs.] This diamond he greets your wife withal. Shak. Whatsoever uncleanness it be that a man shall be defiled withal. Lev. v. 3. 
An iron attachment on one end of a mast or boom, with a ring, through which another mast or boom is rigged out and secured; a wythe. R. H. Dana, Jr. 
To bind or fasten with withes. You shall see him withed, and haltered, and staked, and baited to death. Bp. Hall. 
A piece of iron in a saddle near a horse's withers, to strengthen the bow. 
Within; inside; inwardly. [Obs.] Wyclif. [It is much greater] labor for to withinforth call into mind, without sight of the eye withoutforth upon images, what he before knew and thought upon. Bp. Peacock. 
The osier willow (Salix viminalis). See Osier, n. (a). 
Made of withes; like a withe; flexible and tough; also, abounding in withes. The stream is brimful now, and lies high in this little withy plantation. G. Eliot. 
Knowledge. [Obs.] "Withouten witing of any other wight." Chaucer. 
Having (such) a wit or understanding; as, a quick-witted boy. 
The wheatear. [Prov. Eng.] 
Tin ore freed from earthy matter by stamping. Knight. 
One who, or that which, feeds on or destroys wit. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
To marry, as a man; to take a wife. Wherefore we pray you hastily to wive. Chaucer. 
Wifehood. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Wifely. [Obs.] Udall. 
, pl of Wife. 
Resembling or becoming a wizard; wizardlike; weird. 
To wither; to dry. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
Wizened; thin; weazen; withered. A little lonely, wizen, strangely clad boy. Dickens. 
The weasand. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
An herbaceous cruciferous plant (Isatis tinctoria). It was formerly cultivated for the blue coloring matter derived from its leaves. 
Colored or stained with woad. "Man tattoed or woaded, winter- clad in skins." Tennyson. 
See Weld. 
See Wabble. 
Mad. See Wood, a. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. 
Wood. Chaucer. 
A deity corresponding to Odin, the supreme deity of the Scandinavians. Wednesday is named for him. See Odin. 
Woeful; sorrowful. [Obs.] His clerk was woe to do that deed. Robert of Brunne. Woe was this knight and sorrowfully he sighed. Chaucer. And looking up he waxed wondrous woe. Spenser. 
Wake. 
See 2d Will. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Weld. 
imp. of Will. See Would. 
Any one of several species of wild and savage carnivores belonging to the genus Canis and closely allied to the common dog. The best-known and most destructive species are the European wolf (Canis lupus), the American gray, or timber, wolf (C. occidentalis), and the prairie wolf, or coyote. Wolves often hunt in packs, and may thus attack large animals and even man. 
See 2d Will. [Obs.] 
Wool. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
pl. of Wolf. 
Womanhood. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The uterus. See Uterus. 
To inclose in a womb, or as in a womb; to breed or hold in secret. [Obs.] Shak. 
Any one of three species of Australian burrowing marsupials of the genus Phascolomys, especially the common species (P. ursinus). They are nocturnal in their habits, and feed mostly on roots. 
Capacious. [Obs.] Shak. 
pl. of Woman. 
imp. & p. p. of Win. 
To dwell or abide. [Obs. or Scot.] " Where he wans in forest wild." Milton. This land where I have woned thus long. Spenser. 
Dwelling; wone. [Obs.] Spenser. 
Wonderful. [Obs.] Gower. After that he said a wonder thing. Chaucer. 
Wonderfully. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To dwell; to abide. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Their habitation in which they woned. Chaucer. 
A field. [Obs.] Spelman. "Woods and wonges." Havelok the Dane. 
See Wanger. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Dwelling. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Using or doing customarily; accustomed; habituated; used. "As he was wont to go." Chaucer. If the ox were wont to push with his horn. Ex. xxi. 29. 
Custom; habit; use; usage. They are . . . to be called out to their military motions, under sky or covert, according to the season, as was the Roman wont. Milton. From childly wont and ancient use. Cowper. 
To be accustomed or habituated; to be used. A yearly solemn feast she wont to make. Spenser. 
To accustom; -- used reflexively. 
Accustomed; customary; usual. Again his wonted weapon proved. Spenser. Like an old piece of furniture left alone in its wonted corner. Sir W. Scott. She was wonted to the place, and would not remove. L'Estrange. 
To court; to make love. Dryden. 
Mad; insane; possessed; rabid; furious; frantic. [Obs.] [Written also wode.] Our hoste gan to swear as [if] he were wood. Chaucer. 
To grow mad; to act like a madman; to mad. Chaucer. 
The fibrous material which makes up the greater part of the stems and branches of trees and shrubby plants, and is found to a less extent in herbaceous stems. It consists of elongated tubular or needle-shaped cells of various kinds, usually interwoven with the shinning bands called silver grain. 
To supply with wood, or get supplies of wood for; as, to wood a steamboat or a locomotive. 
To take or get a supply of wood. 
Supplied or covered with wood, or trees; as, land wooded and watered. The brook escaped from the eye down a deep and wooded dell. Sir W. Scott. 
Clumsily; stupidly; blockishly. R. North. 
In a wood, mad, or raving manner; madly; furiously. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Of or pertaining to the woods or forest. [Colloq. U. S.] It [sugar making] is woodsy, and savors of trees. J. Burroughs. 
One who wooes; one who courts or solicits in love; a suitor. "A thriving wooer." Gibber. 
The European blackbird. "The woofell near at hand that hath a golden bill." Drayton. 
Having a close texture; dense; as, a woofy cloud. J. Baillie. 
The sailfish. 
Woke. Chaucer. 
A sort of pubescence, or a clothing of dense, curling hairs on the surface of certain plants. Dead pulled wool, wool pulled from a carcass. -- Mineral wool. See under Mineral. -- Philosopher's wool. (Chem.) See Zinc oxide, under Zinc. -- Pulled wool, wool pulled from a pelt, or undressed hide. -- Slag wool. Same as Mineral wool, under Mineral. -- Wool ball, a ball or mass of wool. -- Wool burler, one who removes little burs, knots, or extraneous matter, from wool, or the surface of woolen cloth. -- Wool comber. (a) One whose occupation is to comb wool. (b) A machine for combing wool. -- Wool grass (Bot.), a kind of bulrush (Scirpus Eriophorum) with numerous clustered woolly spikes. -- Wool scribbler. See Woolen scribbler, under Woolen, a. -- Wool sorter's disease (Med.), a disease, resembling malignant pustule, occurring among those who handle the wool of goats and sheep. -- Wool staple, a city or town where wool used to be brought to the king's staple for sale. [Eng.] -- Wool stapler. (a) One who deals in wool. (b) One who sorts wool according to its staple, or its adaptation to different manufacturing purposes. -- Wool winder, a person employed to wind, or make up, wool into bundles to be packed for sale. 
To wind, or wrap; especially, to wind a rope round, as a mast or yard made of two or more pieces, at the place where it has been fished or scarfed, in order to strengthen it. 
Having (such) wool; as, a fine-wooled sheep. 
Cloth made of wool; woollen goods. 
Clothed with a fine, curly pubescence resembling wool. Woolly bear (Zoöl.), the hairy larva of several species of bombycid moths. The most common species in the United States are the salt-marsh caterpillar (see under Salt), the black and red woolly bear, or larva of the Isabella moth (see Illust., under Isabella Moth), and the yellow woolly bear, or larva of the American ermine moth (Spilosoma Virginica). -- Woolly butt (Bot.), an Australian tree (Eucalyptus longifolia), so named because of its fibrous bark. -- Woolly louse (Zoöl.), a plant louse (Schizoneura, or Erisoma, lanigera) which is often very injurious to the apple tree. It is covered with a dense coat of white filaments somewhat resembling fine wool or cotton. In exists in two forms, one of which infests the roots, the other the branches. See Illust. under Blight. -- Woolly macaco (Zoöl.), the mongoose lemur. -- Woolly maki (Zoöl.), a long-tailed lemur (Indris laniger) native of Madagascar, having fur somewhat like wool; -- called also avahi, and woolly lemur. -- Woolly monkey (Zoöl.), any South American monkey of the genus Lagothrix, as the caparro. -- Woolly rhinoceros (Paleon.), an extinct rhinoceros (Rhinoceros tichorhinus) which inhabited the arctic regions, and was covered with a dense coat of woolly hair. It has been found frozen in the ice of Siberia, with the flesh and hair well preserved. 
Dwelling. See Wone. [Obs.] 
Oozy; wet. [Obs.] Drayton. 
A species of steel imported from the East Indies, valued for making edge tools; Indian steel. It has in combination a minute portion of alumina and silica. 
See Yuen. 
Wept. Chaucer. 
See Wormil. 
Talk; discourse; speech; language. Why should calamity be full of words Shak. Be thy words severe; Sharp as he merits, but the sword forbear. Dryden. 
To use words, as in discussion; to argue; to dispute. [R.] 
A collection of words; a vocabulary; a dictionary; a lexicon. 
A speaker. [Obs.] Withlock. 
One of several pivoted pieces forming the throat of an adjustable die used in drawing wire, lead pipe, etc. Knight. 
imp. of Wear. 
imp. of Ware. 
Structures in civil, military, or naval engineering, as docks, bridges, embankments, trenches, fortifications, and the like; also, the structures and grounds of a manufacturing establishment; as, iron works; locomotive works; gas works. (d) pl. 
Capable of being worked, or worth working; as, a workable mine; workable clay. 
One of the neuter, or sterile, individuals of the social ants, bees, and white ants. The workers are generally females having the sexual organs imperfectly developed. See Ant, and White ant, under White. 
The quality of being worldly; a predominant passion for obtaining the good things of this life; covetousness; addictedness to gain and temporal enjoyments; worldly-mindedness. 
Same as Vermes. 
To work slowly, gradually, and secretly. When debates and fretting jealousy Did worm and work within you more and more, Your color faded. Herbert. 
To wind rope, yarn, or other material, spirally round, between the strands of, as a cable; to wind with spun yarn, as a small rope. Ropes . . . are generally wormed before they are served. Totten. To worm one's self into, to enter into gradually by arts and insinuations; as, to worm one's self into favor. 
See Wormil. 
Penetrated by worms; injured by worms; worm-eaten; as, wormed timber. 
Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores. They belong to various species of Hypoderma and allied genera. Domestic cattle are often infested by a large species. See Gadfly. Called also warble, and worble. [Written also wormal, wormul, and wornil.] 
See Wornil. 
p. p. of Wear. Worn land, land that has become exhausted by tillage, or which for any reason has lost its fertility. 
See Wormil. 
To worry; to annoy. [Illiterate] 
Worry; anxiety. [Illiterate] 
To feel or express undue care and anxiety; to manifest disquietude or pain; to be fretful; to chafe; as, the child worries; the horse worries. 
A state of undue solicitude; a state of disturbance from care and anxiety; vexation; anxiety; fret; as, to be in a worry. "The whir and worry of spindle and of loom." Sir T. Browne. 
Bad, ill, evil, or corrupt, in a greater degree; more bad or evil; less good; specifically, in poorer health; more sick; -- used both in a physical and moral sense. Or worse, if men worse can devise. Chaucer. [She] was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse. Mark v. 26. Evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse. 2 Tim. iii. 13. There are men who seem to believe they are not bad while another can be found worse. Rambler. "But I love him." "Love him Worse and worse." Gay. 
In a worse degree; in a manner more evil or bad. Now will we deal worse with thee than with them. Gen. xix. 9. 
To make worse; to put disadvantage; to discomfit; to worst. See Worst, v. Weapons more violent, when next we meet, May serve to better us and worse our foes. Milton. 
To grow or become worse. De Quincey. Indifferent health, which seemed rather to worsen than improve. Carlyle. 
Worse. [R.] Thou dost deserve a worser end. Beau. & Fl. From worser thoughts which make me do amiss. Bunyan. A dreadful quiet felt, and, worser far Than arms, a sullen interval of war. Dryden. 
Bad, evil, or pernicious, in the highest degree, whether in a physical or moral sense. See Worse. "Heard so oft in worst extremes." Milton. I have a wife, the worst that may be. Chaucer. If thou hadst not been born the worst of men, Thou hadst been a knave and flatterer. Shak. 
That which is most bad or evil; the most severe, pernicious, calamitous, or wicked state or degree. The worst is not So long as we can say, This is the worst. Shak. He is always sure of finding diversion when the worst comes to the worst. Addison. 
To gain advantage over, in contest or competition; to get the better of; to defeat; to overthrow; to discomfit. The . . . Philistines were worsted by the captivated ark. South. 
To grow worse; to deteriorate. [R.] "Every face . . . worsting." Jane Austen. 
A plant of any kind. 
An infusion of malt which is unfermented, or is in the act of fermentation; the sweet infusion of malt, which ferments and forms beer; hence, any similar liquid in a state of incipient fermentation. 
To be; to become; to betide; -- now used only in the phrases, woe worth the day, woe worth the man, etc., in which the verb is in the imperative, and the nouns day, man, etc., are in the dative. Woe be to the day, woe be to the man, etc., are equivalent phrases. I counsel . . . to let the cat worthe. Piers Plowman. He worth upon [got upon] his steed gray. Chaucer. 
Full of worth; worthy; deserving. Marston. 
A man of eminent worth or value; one distinguished for useful and estimable qualities; a person of conspicuous desert; -- much used in the plural; as, the worthies of the church; political worthies; military worthies. The blood of ancient worthies in his veins. Cowper. 
To render worthy; to exalt into a hero. [Obs.] Shak. 
2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. [Obs.] Spenser. 
1st & 3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. See the Note under Wit, v. [Obs.] Brethren, I wot that through ignorance ye did it. Acts iii. 17. 
To howl. [Obs.] Wyclif. 
Commonly used as an auxiliary verb, either in the past tense or in the conditional or optative present. See 2d & 3d Will. 
See 2d Weld. 
imp. & p. p. of Wind to twist, and Wind to sound by blowing. 
An injury to the person by which the skin is divided, or its continuity broken; a lesion of the body, involving some solution of continuity. 
Capable of being wounded; vulnerable. [R.] Fuller. 
Excessive. [Obs.] Such a world of holidays, that 't a woundy hindrance to a poor man that lives by his labor. L'Estrange. 
Excessively; extremely. [Obs.] A am woundy cold. Ford. 
p. pr. & rare vb. n. of Weave. 
p. p. of Weave. Woven paper, or Wove paper, writing paper having an even, uniform surface, without watermarks. 
To woo. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Disordered or unsettled in intellect; deranged. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 
Week. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. of Wax. Gower. 
p. p. of Wax. Chaucer. 
A thin, flying cloud; a rack. 
To rack; to torment. [R.] 
Coarse seaweed of any kind. Wrack grass, or Grass wrack (Bot.), eelgrass. 
To wreck. [Obs.] Dryden. 
To involve in a quarrel or dispute; to embroil. [R.] Bp. Sanderson. 
To snatch up; transport; -- chiefly used in the p. p. wrapt. Lo! where the stripling, wrapt in wonder, roves. Beattie. 
A wrapper; -- often used in the plural for blankets, furs, shawls, etc., used in riding or traveling. 
Any one of numerous edible, marine, spiny-finned fishes of the genus Labrus, of which several species are found in the Mediterranean and on the Atlantic coast of Europe. Many of the species are bright- colored. 
See Wroth. [Obs.] 
To anger; to enrage; -- also used impersonally. [Obs.] "I will not wrathen him." Chaucer. If him wratheth, be ywar and his way shun. Piers Plowman. 
Very angry. [Colloq.] 
Angry; vexed; wrathful. [Obs.] With this speech the cock wex wroth and wraw. Chaucer. 
To cry, as a cat; to waul. [Obs.] Spenser. 
To reveal; to disclose. [Obs.] To no wight thou shalt this counsel wray. Chaucer. 
To reck; to care. [Obs.] Shak. 
Revenge; vengeance; furious passion; resentment. [Obs.] Shak. Spenser. 
An appendage to the shield, placed above it, and supporting the crest (see Illust. of Crest). It generally represents a twist of two cords of silk, one tinctured like the principal metal, the other like the principal color in the arms. 
Wreak. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See 2d & 3d Wreak. 
Goods, etc., which, after a shipwreck, are cast upon the land by the sea. Bouvier. 
A stone bass. 
Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Troglodytes and numerous allied of the family Troglodytidæ. 
The system made up of a force and a couple of forces in a plane perpendicular to that force. Any number of forces acting at any points upon a rigid body may be compounded so as to be equivalent to a wrench. Carriage wrench, a wrench adapted for removing or tightening the nuts that confine the wheels on the axles, or for turning the other nuts or bolts of a carriage or wagon. -- Monkey wrench. See under Monkey. -- Wrench hammer, a wrench with the end shaped so as to admit of being used as a hammer. 
One who wrests. 
In a wretched manner; miserably; despicable. 
See Wray. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Wry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To wriggle. [Obs.] Skelton. 
One who is engaged in a mechanical or manufacturing business; an artificer; a workman; a manufacturer; a mechanic; esp., a worker in wood; -- now chiefly used in compounds, as in millwright, wheelwright, etc. He was a well good wright, a carpenter. Chaucer. 
To bend or strain out of its position; as, to wring a mast. 
To writhe; to twist, as with anguish. 'T is all men's office to speak patience To those that wring under the load of sorrow. Shak. Look where the sister of the king of France Sits wringing of her hands, and beats her breast. Marlowe. 
A writhing, as in anguish; a twisting; a griping. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 
The joint, or the region of the joint, between the hand and the arm; the carpus. See Carpus. He took me by the wrist, and held me hard. Shak. 
3d pers. sing. pres. of Write, for writeth. Chaucer. 
imp. & p. p. of Write. Dryden. 
An instrument in writing, under seal, in an epistolary form, issued from the proper authority, commanding the performance or nonperformance of some act by the person to whom it is directed; as, a writ of entry, of error, of execution, of injunction, of mandamus, of return, of summons, and the like. 
The office of a writer. 
To twist or contort the body; to be distorted; as, to writhe with agony. Also used figuratively. After every attempt, he felt that he had failed, and writhed with shame and vexation. Macaulay. 
p. p. of Wreak. Chaucer. 
imp. of Wring. Wrung. Chaucer. 
In a wrong manner; not rightly; amiss; morally ill; erroneously; wrongly. Ten censure wrong for one that writes amiss. Pope. 
That which is not right. Specifically: (a) Nonconformity or disobedience to lawful authority, divine or human; deviation from duty; -- the opposite of moral Ant: right. When I had wrong and she the right. Chaucer. One spake much of right and wrong. Milton. 
One who commits a tort or trespass; a trespasser; a tort feasor. Ayliffe. 
imp. of Write. Wrote. Chaucer. 
To root with the snout. See 1st Root. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
imp. & archaic p. p. of Write. 
Full of wrath; angry; incensed; much exasperated; wrathful. "Wroth to see his kingdom fail." Milton. Revel and truth as in a low degree, They be full wroth [i. e., at enmity] all day. Chaucer. Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. Gen. iv. 5. 
imp. & p. p. of Wring. 
To cover. [Obs.] Wrie you in that mantle. Chaucer. 
To twist; to distort; to writhe; to wrest; to vex. Sir P. Sidney. Guests by hundreds, not one caring If the dear host's neck were wried. R. Browning. 
See 2d Will. Pour out to all that wull. Spenser. 
See Wormil. 
Wide. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Week. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A helmeted Australian cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus funereus); -- called also funeral cockatoo. 
A narrow lane or alley. [Scot.] Jamieson. The narrow wynds, or alleys, on each side of the street. Bryant. 
A kind of timber truck, or carriage. 
The wipe, or lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] 
Wise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Same as Withe, n., 4. 
Same as Wiver. 
A small three-masted vessel, with projecting bow stern and convex decks, used in the Mediterranean for transporting merchandise, etc. It carries large square sails, or both. Xebecs were formerly armed and used by corsairs. 
An Arctic fork-tailed gull (Xema Sabinii). 
A present given to a guest or stranger, or to a foreign ambassador. 
A suborder of soft-rayed fresh-water fishes of which the blackfish of Alaska (Dallia pectoralis) is the type. 
A very heavy, inert gaseous element occurring in the atmosphere in the proportion of one volume is about 20 millions. It was discovered by Ramsay and Travers in 1898. It can be condensed to a liquid boiling at -109º C., and to a solid which volatilizes without melting. Symbol Xe or X; atomic weight 130.2. 
The radical characteristic of xenylic compounds. 
Sherry. See Sherry. 
A shereef. 
A gold coin formerly current in Egypt and Turkey, of the value of about 9s. 6d., or about $2.30; -- also, in Morocco, a ducat. 
A gummy substance of the pentosan class, present in woody tissue, and yielding xylose on hydrolysis; wood gum. 
A salt of xylic acid. 
That portion of a fibrovascular bundle which has developed, or will develop, into wood cells; -- distinguished from phloëm. 
Any of a group of three metameric hydrocarbons of the aromatic series, found in coal and wood tar, and so named because found in crude wood spirit. They are colorless, oily, inflammable liquids, C6H4.(CH3)2, being dimethyl benzenes, and are called respectively orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene. Called also xylol. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, xylene; specifically, designating any one of several metameric acids produced by the partial oxidation of mesitylene and pseudo-cumene. 
A liquid hydrocarbon found in crude wood spirits. 
Resembling wood; having the nature of wood. 
Same as Xylene. 
An unfermentable sugar of the pentose class, C5H10O5, formed by the hydrolysis of xylan; wood sugar. 
Any one of three metameric radicals which are characteristic respectively of the three xylenes. 
A genus of endogenous herbs with grassy leaves and small yellow flowers in short, scaly-bracted spikes; yellow-eyed grass. There are about seventeen species in the Atlantic United States. 
An instrument for scraping bone. 
A South American crocodilian (Jacare sclerops) resembling the alligator in size and habits. The eye orbits are connected together, and surrounded by prominent bony ridges. Called also spectacled alligator, and spectacled cayman. [Written also jacare.] 
A West Indian name for two large timber trees (Podocarpus coriaceus, and P. Purdicanus) of the Yew family. The wood, which is much used, is pale brownish with darker streaks. 
A light and elegantly furnished vessel, used either for private parties of pleasure, or as a vessel of state to convey distinguished persons from one place to another; a seagoing vessel used only for pleasure trips, racing, etc. Yacht measurement. See the Note under Tonnage, 4. 
To manage a yacht; to voyage in a yacht. 
Gave. See Give. Chaucer. 
The European green woodpecker (Picus, or Genius, viridis). It is noted for its loud laughlike note. Called also eccle, hewhole, highhoe, laughing bird, popinjay, rain bird, yaffil, yaffler, yaffingale, yappingale, yackel, and woodhack. 
In the German army, one belonging to a body of light infantry armed with rifles, resembling the chasseur of the French army. [Written also jager.] 
A modern transliteration of the Hebrew word translated Jehovah in the Bible; -- used by some critics to discriminate the tribal god of the ancient Hebrews from the Christian Jehovah. Yahweh or Yahwe is the spelling now generally adopted by scholars. 
A bovine mammal (Poëphagus grunnies) native of the high plains of Central Asia. Its neck, the outer side of its legs, and its flanks, are covered with long, flowing, fine hair. Its tail is long and bushy, often white, and is valued as an ornament and for other purposes in India and China. There are several domesticated varieties, some of which lack the mane and the long hair on the flanks. Called also chauri gua, grunting cow, grunting ox, sarlac, sarlik, and sarluc. Yak lace, a coarse pillow lace made from the silky hair of the yak. 
Same as Yacare. 
A large Asiatic antelope (Budorcas taxicolor) native of the higher parts of the Himalayas and other lofty mountains. Its head and neck resemble those of the ox, and its tail is like that of the goat. Called also budorcas. 
A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth. 
The Turkish language of the Yakuts, a Mongolian people of northeastern Siberia, which is lingua franca over much of eastern Siberia. 
The oil of the mahwa tree. 
A large, esculent, farinaceous tuber of various climbing plants of the genus Dioscorea; also, the plants themselves. Mostly natives of warm climates. The plants have netted-veined, petioled leaves, and pods with three broad wings. The commonest species is D. sativa, but several others are cultivated. Chinese yam, a plant (Dioscorea Batatas) with a long and slender tuber, hardier than most of the other species. -- Wild yam. (a) A common plant (Dioscorea villosa) of the Eastern United States, having a hard and knotty rootstock. (b) An orchidaceous plant (Gastrodia sesamoides) of Australia and Tasmania. 
The king of the infernal regions, corresponding to the Greek Pluto, and also the judge of departed souls. In later times he is more exclusively considered the dire judge of all, and the tormentor of the wicked. He is represented as of a green color, with red garments, having a crown on his head, his eyes inflamed, and sitting on a buffalo, with a club and noose in his hands. 
In China, the official headquarters or residence of a mandarin, including court rooms, offices, gardens, prisons, etc.; the place where the business of any public department is transcated. 
The llama. 
An umbelliferous plant (Carum Gairdneri); also, its small fleshy roots, which are eaten by the Indians from Idaho to California. 
The cry of the wild goose; a honk. 
To make the cry of the wild goose. 
A jerk or twitch. [Colloq. U. S.] 
To twitch; to jerk. [Colloq. U. S.] 
An abbreviation of Yankee. [Slang] 
A nickname for a native of citizen of New England, especially one descended from old New England stock; by extension, an inhabitant of the Northern States as distinguished from a Southerner; also, applied sometimes by foreigners to any inhabitant of the United States. From meanness first this Portsmouth Yankey rose, And still to meanness all his conduct flows. Oppression, A poem by an American (Boston, 1765). 
Of or pertaining to a Yankee; characteristic of the Yankees. The alertness of the Yankee aspect. Hawthorne. Yankee clover. (Bot.) See Japan clover, under Japan. 
A fermented drink, or milk beer, made by the Turks. 
To bark; to yelp. L'Estrange. 
A bark; a yelp. 
A South American aquatic opossum (Chironectes variegatus) found in Guiana and Brazil. Its hind feet are webbed, and its fore feet do not have an opposable thumb for climbing. Called also water opossum. [Written also yapack.] 
Same as Yaupon. 
The power of moving, or being managed, at sea; -- said with reference to a ship. Sir T. North. 
A long piece of timber, nearly cylindrical, tapering toward the ends, and designed to support and extend a square sail. A yard is usually hung by the center to the mast. See Illust. of Ship. Golden Yard, or Yard and Ell (Astron.), a popular name the three stars in the belt of Orion. -- Under yard [i. e., under the rod], under contract. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
To confine (cattle) to the yard; to shut up, or keep, in a yard; as, to yard cows. 
Ready; dexterous; eager; lively; quick to move. [Obs.] "Be yare in thy preparation." Shak. The lesser [ship] will come and go, leave or take, and is yare; whereas the greater is slow. Sir W. Raleigh. 
Soon. [Obs.] Cursor Mundi. 
In a yare manner. [Obs.] Shak. 
To yerk. [Prov. Eng.] 
Same as Saki. 
One of the threads of which the strands of a rope are composed. 
Made of yarn; consisting of yarn. [Obs.] "A pair of yarnen stocks." Turbervile. 
See Yernut. 
To growl or snarl as a dog. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 
An American and European composite plant (Achillea Millefolium) with very finely dissected leaves and small white corymbed flowers. It has a strong, and somewhat aromatic, odor and taste, and is sometimes used in making beer, or is dried for smoking. Called also milfoil, and nosebleed. 
A gate. See 1st Gate. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Spenser. 
See Yawd. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 
See Yawl. 
To yaup. 
To cry out like a child; to yelp. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.] [Written also yawp.] 
The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 
One who, or that which, yaups. 
A shrub (Ilex Cassine) of the Holly family, native from Virginia to Florida. The smooth elliptical leaves are used as a substitute for tea, and were formerly used in preparing the black drink of the Indians of North Carolina. Called also South-Sea tea. [Written also yapon, youpon, and yupon.] 
In Porto Rico, any of several araceous plants or their starchy edible roots, which are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes, as the taro. 
To rise in blisters, breaking in white froth, as cane juice in the clarifiers in sugar works. 
To steer wild, or out of the line of her course; to deviate from her course, as when struck by a heavy sea; -- said of a ship. Just as he would lay the ship's course, all yawing being out of the question. Lowell. 
A movement of a vessel by which she temporarily alters her course; a deviation from a straight course in steering. 
A jade; an old horse or mare. [Written also yaud.] [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Grose. 
A fore-and-aft-rigged vessel with a mainmast stepped a little farther forward than in a sloop and carrying a mainsail and jibs, with a jigger mast far aft, usually placed abaft the rudder post. 
A small ship's boat, usually rowed by four or six oars. [Written also yaul.] 
To cry out like a dog or cat; to howl; to yell. Tennyson. There howling Scyllas yawling round about. Fairfax. 
In a yawning manner. 
See Yaup. 
A disease, occurring in the Antilles and in Africa, characterized by yellowish or reddish tumors, of a contagious character, which, in shape and appearance, often resemble currants, strawberries, or raspberries. There are several varieties of this disease, variously known as framboesia, pian, verrugas, and crab- yaws. 
Been. Chaucer. 
Done. Chaucer. 
Dreaded. Yet nothing did he dread, but ever was ydrad. Spenser. 
An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, a vote by yeas and nays. 
Properly, a variant of the defective imperfect yode, but sometimes mistaken for a present. See the Note under Yede. [Obs.] Years yead away and faces fair deflower. Drant. 
To bring forth young, as a goat or a sheep; to ean. Shak. 
Age, or old age; as, a man in years. Shak. Anomalistic year, the time of the earth's revolution from perihelion to perihelion again, which is 365 days, 6 hours, 13 minutes, and 48 seconds. -- A year's mind (Eccl.), a commemoration of a deceased person, as by a Mass, a year after his death. Cf. A month's mind, under Month. -- Bissextile year. See Bissextile. -- Canicular year. See under Canicular. -- Civil year, the year adopted by any nation for the computation of time. -- Common lunar year, the period of 12 lunar months, or 354 days. -- Common year, each year of 365 days, as distinguished from leap year. -- Embolismic year, or Intercalary lunar year, the period of 13 lunar months, or 384 days. -- Fiscal year (Com.), the year by which accounts are reckoned, or the year between one annual time of settlement, or balancing of accounts, and another. -- Great year. See Platonic year, under Platonic. -- Gregorian year, Julian year. See under Gregorian, and Julian. -- Leap year. See Leap year, in the Vocabulary. -- Lunar astronomical year, the period of 12 lunar synodical months, or 354 days, 8 hours, 48 minutes, 36 seconds. -- Lunisolar year. See under Lunisolar. -- Periodical year. See Anomalistic year, above. -- Platonic year, Sabbatical year. See under Platonic, and Sabbatical. -- Sidereal year, the time in which the sun, departing from any fixed star, returns to the same. This is 365 days, 6 hours, 9 minutes, and 9.3 seconds. -- Tropical year. See under Tropical. -- Year and a day (O. Eng. Law), a time to be allowed for an act or an event, in order that an entire year might be secured beyond all question. Abbott. -- Year of grace, any year of the Christian era; Anno Domini; A. D. or a. d. 
The California poison oak (Rhus diversiloba). See under Poison, a. 
Containing years; having existed or continued many years; aged. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 
Annually; once a year to year; as, blessings yearly bestowed. Yearly will I do this rite. Shak. 
To pain; to grieve; to vex. [Obs.] "She laments, sir, for it, that it would yearn your heart to see it." Shak. It yearns me not if men my garments wear. Shak. 
To be pained or distressed; to grieve; to mourn. [Obs.] "Falstaff he is dead, and we must yearn therefore." Shak. 
To curdle, as milk. [Scot.] 
To be filled with longing desire; to be harassed or rendered uneasy with longing, or feeling the want of a thing; to strain with emotions of affection or tenderness; to long; to be eager. Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother; and he sought where to weep. Gen. xliii. 30. Your mother's heart yearns towards you. Addison. 
The earth. [Obs.] "Is my son dead or hurt or on the yerthe felled" Ld. Berners. 
A form of fungus which grows as indvidual rounded cells, rather than in a mycelium, and reproduces by budding; esp. members of the orders Endomycetales and Moniliales. Some fungi may grow both as a yeast or as a mycelium, depending on the conditions of growth. Yeast cake, a mealy cake impregnated with the live germs of the yeast plant, and used as a conveniently transportable substitute for yeast. -- Yeast plant (Bot.), the vegetable organism, or fungus, of which beer yeast consists. The yeast plant is composed of simple cells, or granules, about one three-thousandth of an inch in diameter, often united into filaments which reproduce by budding, and under certain circumstances by the formation of spores. The name is extended to other ferments of the same genus. See Saccharomyces. -- Yeast powder, a baling powder, -- used instead of yeast in leavening bread. 
Frothy; foamy; spumy, like yeast. 
Went. See Yode. All as he bade fulfilled was indeed This ilke servant anon right out yede. Chaucer. 
An eel. [Obs.] Holland. 
Same as Yolk. 
To cry out, or shriek, with a hideous noise; to cry or scream as with agony or horror. They yelleden as feendes doon in helle. Chaucer. Nor the night raven, that still deadly yells. Spenser. Infernal ghosts and hellish furies round Environed thee; some howled, some yelled. Milton. 
To utter or declare with a yell; to proclaim in a loud tone. Shak. 
A sharp, loud, hideous outcry. Their hideous yells Rend the dark welkin. J. Philips. 
Being of a bright saffronlike color; of the color of gold or brass; having the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is between the orange and the green. Her yellow hair was browded [braided] in a tress. Chaucer. A sweaty reaper from his tillage brought First fruits, the green ear and the yellow sheaf. Milton. The line of yellow light dies fast away. Keble. Yellow atrophy (Med.), a fatal affection of the liver, in which it undergoes fatty degeneration, and becomes rapidly smaller and of a deep yellow tinge. The marked symptoms are black vomit, delirium, convulsions, coma, and jaundice. -- Yellow bark, calisaya bark. -- Yellow bass (Zoöl.), a North American fresh-water bass (Morone interrupta) native of the lower parts of the Mississippi and its tributaries. It is yellow, with several more or less broken black stripes or bars. Called also barfish. -- Yellow berry. (Bot.) Same as Persian berry, under Persian. -- Yellow boy, a gold coin, as a guinea. [Slang] Arbuthnot. -- Yellow brier. (Bot.) See under Brier. -- Yellow bugle (Bot.), a European labiate plant (Ajuga Chamæpitys). -- Yellow bunting (Zoöl.), the European yellow-hammer. -- Yellow cat (Zoöl.), a yellow catfish; especially, the bashaw. -- Yellow copperas (Min.), a hydrous sulphate of iron; -- called also copiapite. -- Yellow copper ore, a sulphide of copper and iron; copper pyrites. See Chalcopyrite. -- Yellow cress (Bot.), a yellow-flowered, cruciferous plant (Barbarea præcox), sometimes grown as a salad plant. -- Yellow dock. (Bot.) See the Note under Dock. -- Yellow earth, a yellowish clay, colored by iron, sometimes used as a yellow pigment. -- Yellow fever (Med.), a malignant, contagious, febrile disease of warm climates, attended with jaundice, producing a yellow color of the skin, and with the black vomit. See Black vomit, in the Vocabulary. -- Yellow flag, the quarantine flag. See under Quarantine, and 3d Flag. -- Yellow jack. (a) The yellow fever. See under 2d Jack. (b) The quarantine flag. See under Quarantine. -- Yellow jacket (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American social wasps of the genus Vespa, in which the color of the body is partly bright yellow. These wasps are noted for their irritability, and for their painful stings. -- Yellow lead ore (Min.), wulfenite. -- Yellow lemur (Zoöl.), the kinkajou. -- Yellow macauco (Zoöl.), the kinkajou. -- Yellow mackerel (Zoöl.), the jurel. -- Yellow metal. Same as Muntz metal, under Metal. -- Yellow ocher (Min.), an impure, earthy variety of brown iron ore, which is used as a pigment. -- Yellow oxeye (Bot.), a yellow-flowered plant (Chrysanthemum segetum) closely related to the oxeye daisy. -- Yellow perch (Zoöl.), the common American perch. See Perch. -- Yellow pike (Zoöl.), the wall-eye. -- Yellow pine (Bot.), any of several kinds of pine; also, their yellowish and generally durable timber. Among the most common are valuable species are Pinus mitis and P. palustris of the Eastern and Southern States, and P. ponderosa and P. Arizonica of the Rocky Mountains and Pacific States. -- Yellow plover (Zoöl.), the golden plover. -- Yellow precipitate (Med. Chem.), an oxide of mercury which is thrown down as an amorphous yellow powder on adding corrosive sublimate to limewater. -- Yellow puccoon. (Bot.) Same as Orangeroot. -- Yellow rail (Zoöl.), a small American rail (Porzana Noveboracensis) in which the lower parts are dull yellow, darkest on the breast. The back is streaked with brownish yellow and with black, and spotted with white. Called also yellow crake. -- Yellow rattle, Yellow rocket. (Bot.) See under Rattle, and Rocket. -- Yellow Sally (Zoöl.), a greenish or yellowish European stone fly of the genus Chloroperla; -- so called by anglers. -- Yellow sculpin (Zoöl.), the dragonet. -- Yellow snake (Zoöl.), a West Indian boa (Chilobothrus inornatus) common in Jamaica. It becomes from eight to ten long. The body is yellowish or yellowish green, mixed with black, and anteriorly with black lines. -- Yellow spot. (a) (Anat.) A small yellowish spot with a central pit, the fovea centralis, in the center of the retina where vision is most accurate. See Eye. (b) (Zoöl.) A small American butterfly (Polites Peckius) of the Skipper family. Its wings are brownish, with a large, irregular, bright yellow spot on each of the hind wings, most conspicuous beneath. Called also Peck's skipper. See Illust. under Skipper, n., 5. -- Yellow tit (Zoöl.), any one of several species of crested titmice of the genus Machlolophus, native of India. The predominating colors of the plumage are yellow and green. -- Yellow viper (Zoöl.), the fer-de-lance. -- Yellow warbler (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American warblers of the genus Dendroica in which the predominant color is yellow, especially D. æstiva, which is a very abundant and familiar species; -- called also garden warbler, golden warbler, summer yellowbird, summer warbler, and yellow-poll warbler. -- Yellow wash (Pharm.), yellow oxide of mercury suspended in water, -- a mixture prepared by adding corrosive sublimate to limewater. -- Yellow wren (Zoöl.) (a) The European willow warbler. (b) The European wood warbler. 
To make yellow; to cause to have a yellow tinge or color; to dye yellow. 
To become yellow or yellower. 
A sharp, quick cry; a bark. Chaucer. 
An animal that yelps, or makes a yelping noise. Specifically: (Zoöl.) (a) The avocet; -- so called from its sharp, shrill cry. [Prov. Eng.] (b) The tattler. [Local, U. S.] 
A yeoman. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The unit of value and account in Japan. Since Japan's adoption of the gold standard, in 1897, the value of the yen has been about 50 cents. The yen is equal to 100 sen. 
To throw; to cast. [Prov. Eng.] 
A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals; -- also called ilvaite. [Spelt also jenite.] 
An interior officer under the boatswain, gunner, or carpenters, charged with the stowage, account, and distribution of the stores. Yeoman of the guard, one of the bodyguard of the English sovereign, consisting of the hundred yeomen, armed with partisans, and habited in the costume of the sixteenth century. They are members of the royal household. 
Ere; before. [Obs.] Sylvester. 
An herb; a plant. 
See 1st & 2d Yard. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A sudden or quick thrust or motion; a jerk. 
See 3d Yearn. [Obs.] 
Eager; brisk; quick; active. [Obs.] "Her song . . . loud and yern." Chaucer. 
Eagerly; briskly; quickly. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. My hands and my tongue go so yerne. Chaucer. 
An earthnut, or groundnut. See Groundnut (d). [Written also yarnut.] 
See Erst. [Obs.] Sylvester. 
Ay; yea; -- a word which expresses affirmation or consent; -- opposed to Ant: no. 
See Yeast. Shak. 
Last; last past; next before; of or pertaining to yesterday. [An enemy] whom yester sun beheld Mustering her charms. Dryden. 
See Yeasty. Shak. 
Any one of several species of large marine gastropods belonging to the genus Yetus, or Cymba; a boat shell. 
Nevertheless; notwithstanding; however. Yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Matt. vi. 29. 
To give. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Given. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Yaw. 
An evergreen tree (Taxus baccata) of Europe, allied to the pines, but having a peculiar berrylike fruit instead of a cone. It frequently grows in British churchyards. 
Of or pertaining to yew trees; made of the wood of a yew tree; as, a yew whipstock. 
Made of yew; as, yewen bows. 
To hiccough. [Written also yox, yux.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] He yexeth and he speaketh through the nose. Chaucer. 
A hiccough. [Written also yox, and yux.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] "The excessive yex." Holland. 
Same as Izedi. Taylor. 
Together. See Ifere. [Obs.] As friends do when they be met yfere. Chaucer. 
Eye. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Gone. Chaucer. 
p. p. of Hold. Chaucer. 
A Jew. [Slang or Colloq.] "Almost any young Yid who goes out from among her people."  John Corbin. 
Amount yielded; product; -- applied especially to products resulting from growth or cultivation. "A goodly yield of fruit doth bring." Bacon. 
Gift. [Obs.] "Great yiftes." Chaucer. 
A Chinese weight of 2 
Yes. [Obs.] "Yis, sir," quod he, "yis, host." Chaucer. 
Yet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The European yellow-hammer. 
To give. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Isle. [Obs.] "The barren yle." Chaucer. 
Made. 
Among. [Obs.] "Ymel them all." Chaucer. 
A South American tinamou (Rhynchotus rufescens); -- called also perdiz grande, and rufous tinamou. See Illust. of Tinamou. 
The yaffle. 
Went; walked; proceeded. [Written also yede.] See Yede. Quer [whether] they rade [rode] or yoke. Cursor Mundi. Then into Cornhill anon I yode. Lydgate. 
One who yodels. 
A species of asceticism among the Hindoos, which consists in a complete abstraction from all worldly objects, by which the votary expects to obtain union with the universal spirit, and to acquire superhuman faculties. 
A follower of the yoga philosophy; an ascetic. [Spelt also yokin.] Whitworth. 
Yoga, or its practice. 
A cry of encouragement to foxhounds. 
The European yellow-hammer. [Prov. Eng.] 
A measure of distance, varying from four to ten miles, but usually about five. [India] [Written also yojana.] 
To be joined or associated; to be intimately connected; to consort closely; to mate. We 'll yoke together, like a double shadow. Shak. 
A country bumpkin. [Eng.] Dickens. 
Yielded. Spenser. 
Yielded. 
An oily secretion which naturally covers the wool of sheep. Yolk cord (Zoöl.), a slender cord or duct which connects the yolk glands with the egg chambers in certain insects, as in the aphids. -- Yolk gland (Zoöl.), a special organ which secretes the yolk of the eggs in many turbellarians, and in some other invertebrates. See Illust. of Hermaphrodite in Appendix. -- Yolk sack (Anat.), the umbilical vesicle. See under Unbilical. 
To yell. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Day; -- a Hebrew word used in the names of various Jewish feast days; as, Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement; Yom Teruah (lit., day of shouting), the Feast of Trumpets. 
At a distance, but within view; yonder. [Poetic] Read thy lot in yon celestial sign. Milton. Though fast yon shower be fleeting. Keble. 
Yonder. [Obs. or Poetic] But, first and chiefest, with thee bring Him that yon soars on golden wing. Milton. 
Furious; mad; angry; fierce. [Obs.] "Then wexeth wood and yond." Spenser. 
Yonder. [Obs.] "Yond in the garden." Chaucer. 
At a distance, but within view. Yonder are two apple women scolding. Arbuthnot. 
Being at a distance within view, or conceived of as within view; that or those there; yon. "Yon flowery arbors, yonder alleys green." Milton. "Yonder sea of light." Keble. Yonder men are too many for an embassage. Bacon. 
The symbol under which Sakti, or the personification of the female power in nature, is worshiped. Cf. Lingam. 
A young fellow; a younker. [Obs. or Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. 
In time long past; in old time; long since. [Obs. or Poetic] As it hath been of olde times yore. Chaucer. Which though he hath polluted oft and yore, Yet I to them for judgment just do fly. Spenser. Of yore, of old time; long ago; as, in times or days of yore. "But Satan now is wiser than of yore." Pope. Where Abraham fed his flock of yore. Keble. 
A tice. 
To unite closely. [Prov. Eng.] 
To pour water on; to soak in, or mix with, water. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Grose. My fowls, which well enough, I, as before, found feeding at their trough Their yoted wheat. Chapman. 
The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed. See the Note under Ye. Ye go to Canterbury; God you speed. Chaucer. Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you To leave this place. Shak. In vain you tell your parting lover You wish fair winds may waft him over. Prior. 
To yell; to yowl. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
The offspring of animals, either a single animal or offspring collectively. [The egg] bursting with kindly rupture, forth disclosed Their callow young. Milton. With young, with child; pregnant. 
Same as Yaupon. 
The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you. 
See the Note under Your. 
See the Note under Your. 
Also used figuratively. "The youthful season of the year." Shak. 
Young. [Obs.] Spectator. 
The cheetah. 
You. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
A ewe. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] G. Eliot. 
To utter a loud, long, and mournful cry, as a dog; to howl; to yell. 
A loud, protracted, and mournful cry, as that of a dog; a howl. 
The European yellow-hammer. [Prov. Eng.] 
See Yex. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
See Pight. 
Bereft. Chaucer. 
Iron. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Run. Chaucer. 
Together. [Obs.] "And in a bag all sorts of seeds ysame." Spenser. 
The oxide, Y2O3, or earth, of yttrium. 
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, yttrium. 
See Flicker, n., 2. 
A genus of American liliaceous, sometimes arborescent, plants having long, pointed, and often rigid, leaves at the top of a more or less woody stem, and bearing a large panicle of showy white blossoms. 
To itch. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 
To scratch. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 
Same as Yockel. 
The crowned gibbon (Hylobates pileatus), native of Siam, Southern China, and the Island of Hainan. It is entirely arboreal in its habits, and has very long arms. the males are dark brown or blackish, with a caplike mass of long dark hair, and usually with a white band around the face. The females are yellowish white, with a dark spot on the breast and another on the crown. Called also wooyen, and wooyen ape. 
Russia leather. 
Same as Yuck. [Prov. Eng.] 
A species of Magnolia (M. conspicua) with large white blossoms that open before the leaves. See the Note under Magnolia. 
Christmas or Christmastide; the feast of the Nativity of our Savior. And at each pause they kiss; was never seen such rule In any place but here, at bonfire, or at Yule. Drayton. Yule block, or Yule log, a large log of wood formerly put on the hearth of Christmas eve, as the foundation of the fire. It was brought in with much ceremony. -- Yule clog, the yule log. Halliwell. W. Irving. 
Designating, or pertaining to, an important linguistic stock of North American Indians of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico, nearly all agriculturists and adept potters and basket makers. Their usual dwelling is the brush wikiup, and in their native state they wear little clothing. The Yuma, Maricopa, Mohave, Walapi, and Yavapai are among the chief tribes, all of fine physique. 
A tribe of Indians native of Arizona and the adjacent parts of Mexico and California. They are agricultural, and cultivate corn, wheat, barley, melons, etc. 
An Indian of a linguistic stock of tribes of the Peruvian coast who had a developed agricultural civilization at the advent of the Spaniards, before which they had been conquered by the Incas. They constructed irrigation canals which are still in use, adorned their buildings with bas-reliefs and frescoes, and were skilled goldsmiths and silversmiths. -- Yun"can (#), a. 
A genus of birds comprising the wrynecks. 
Same as Yaupon. 
See Yex, n. [Obs.] 
Evil; ill. [Obs.] Chaucer. 
Aware; wary. [Obs.] "Be ywar, and his way shun." Piers Plowman. 
Certainly; most likely; truly; probably. [Obs. or Archaic] "Ywis," quod he, "it is full dear, I say." Chaucer. She answered me, "I-wisse, all their sport in the park is but a shadow to that pleasure that I find in Plato." Ascham. A right good knight, and true of word ywis. Spenser. 
See Sabian. 
See Zocco. 
An oil pressed by the Arabs from the fruit of a small thorny tree (Balanites Ægyptiaca), and sold to piligrims for a healing ointment. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 
A pigment obtained, usually by roasting cobalt glance with sand or quartz, as a dark earthy powder. It consists of crude cobalt oxide, or of an impure cobalt arseniate. It is used in porcelain painting, and in enameling pottery, to produce a blue color, and is often confounded with smalt, from which, however, it is distinct, as it contains no potash. The name is often loosely applied to mixtures of zaffer proper with silica, or oxides of iron, manganese, etc. [Written also zaffre, and formerly zaffree, zaffar, zaffir.] 
A Turkish chief who supports a mounted militia bearing the same name. Smart. 
A district from which a Zaim draws his revenue. Smart. 
A horse of a dark color, neither gray nor white, and having no spots. Smart. 
An immense leguminous tree (Pithecolobium Saman) of Venezuela. Its branches form a hemispherical mass, often one hundred and eighty feet across. The sweet pulpy pods are used commonly for feeding cattle. Also called rain tree. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 
The child of a mulatto and a negro; also, the child of an Indian and a negro; colloquially or humorously, a negro; a sambo. 
A genus of cycadaceous plants, having the appearance of low palms, but with exogenous wood. See Coontie, and Illust. of Strobile. 
A fossil cycad of the genus Zamia. 
A European pike perch (Stizostedion lucioperca) allied to the wall-eye; -- called also sandari, sander, sannat, schill, and zant. 
See Zantewood. 
A merry-andrew; a buffoon. Then write that I may follow, and so be Thy echo, thy debtor, thy foil, thy zany. Donne. Preacher at once, and zany of thy age. Pope. 
To mimic. [Obs.] Your part is acted; give me leave at distance To zany it. Massinger. 
See Army organization, above. 
An improvised stockade; especially, one made of thorn bushes, etc. [Written also zareeba, and zeriba.] [Egypt] "Ah," he moralizes, "what wonderful instinct on the part of this little creature to surround itself with a zareba like the troops after Osman Digma." R. Jefferies. 
A metallic cuplike stand used for holding a finjan. 
A species of macaque (Macacus pileatus) native of India and Ceylon. It has a crown of long erect hair, and tuft of radiating hairs on the back of the head. Called also capped macaque. 
A tool for trimming and puncturing roofing states. [Written also sax.] 
A public shed, or portico, for travelers, worshipers, etc. [Burmah] 
A genus of large grasses of which the Indian corn (Zea Mays) is the only species known. Its origin is not yet ascertained. See Maize. 
To be zealous. [Obs. & R.] Bacon. 
Full of zeal; characterized by zeal. [Obs.] "Zealed religion." Beau. & Fl. 
One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, and pursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who is overzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion to anything; an enthusiast; a fanatical partisan. Zealots for the one [tradition] were in hostile array against zealots for the other. Sir J. Stephen. In Ayrshire, Clydesdale, Nithisdale, Annandale, every parish was visited by these turbulent zealots. Macaulay. 
See Xebec. 
Either one of two species of South African wild horses remarkable for having the body white or yellowish white, and conspicuously marked with dark brown or brackish bands. 
A bovine mammal (Ros Indicus) extensively domesticated in India, China, the East Indies, and East Africa. It usually has short horns, large pendulous ears, slender legs, a large dewlap, and a large, prominent hump over the shoulders; but these characters vary in different domestic breeds, which range in size from that of the common ox to that of a large mastiff. 
A large noxious fly of Abyssinia, which like the tsetse fly, is destructive to cattle. 
See Sequin. 
The letter Z; -- called also zee, and formerly izzard. "Zed, thou unnecessary letter!" Shak. 
A hippopotamus. 
An Austrian silver coin equal to ten kreutzers, or about five cents. 
A nitrogenous substance of the nature of gluten, obtained from the seeds of Indian corn (Zea) as a soft, yellowish, amorphous substance. [Formerly written zeine.] 
The blind mole rat (Spalax typhlus), native of Eastern Europe and Asia. Its eyes and ears are rudimentary, and its fur is soft and brownish, more or less tinged with gray. It constructs extensive burrows. 
The part of a dwelling appropriated to women. [India] 
Properly, the translation and exposition in the Huzvâresh, or literary Pehlevi, language, of the Avesta, the Zoroastrian sacred writings; as commonly used, the language (an ancient Persian dialect) in which the Avesta is written. 
An atheist or unbeliever; -- name given in the East to those charged with disbelief of any revealed religion, or accused of magical heresies. 
A South African burrowing mammal (Suricata tetradactyla), allied to the civets. It is grayish brown, with yellowish transverse stripes on the back. Called also suricat. 
See Zenick. 
Of or pertaining to the zenith. "The deep zenithal blue." Tyndall. 
The west wind; poetically, any soft, gentle breeze. "Soft the zephyr blows." Gray. As gentle As zephyrs blowing below the violet. Shak. Zephyr cloth, a thin kind of cassimere made in Belgium; also, a waterproof fabric of wool. -- Zephyr shawl, a kind of thin, light, embroidered shawl made of worsted and cotton. -- Zephyr yarn, or worsted, a fine, soft kind of yarn or worsted, -- used for knitting and embroidery. 
See Sequin. 
The fennec. 
Same as Zareba. 
A cipher; nothing; naught. 
A Greek letter [z] corresponding to our z. 
A figure by which an adjective or verb, which agrees with a nearer word, is, by way of supplement, referred also to another more remote; as, "hic illius arma, hic currus fuit;" where fuit, which agrees directly with currus, is referred also to arma. 
The chief deity of the Greeks, and ruler of the upper world (cf. Hades). He was identified with Jupiter. 
Curd produced from milk by adding acetic acid, after rennet has ceased to cause coagulation. Brande & C. 
The second month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding to our May. 
A molding running in a zigzag line; a chevron, or series of chevrons. See Illust. of Chevron, 3. 
Having short, sharp turns; running this way and that in an onward course. 
To form with short turns. 
To move in a zigzag manner; also, to have a zigzag shape. R. Browning. 
A low, thorny, suffrutescent, crucifeous plant (Zilla myagroides) found in the deserts of Egypt. Its leaves are boiled in water, and eaten, by the Arabs. 
A district or local division, as of a province. [India] 
A large, venomous, two-winged fly, native of Abyssinia. It is allied to the tsetse fly, and, like the latter, is destructive to cattle. 
An abundant element of the magnesium-cadmium group, extracted principally from the minerals zinc blende, smithsonite, calamine, and franklinite, as an easily fusible bluish white metal, which is malleable, especially when heated. It is not easily oxidized in moist air, and hence is used for sheeting, coating galvanized iron, etc. It is used in making brass, britannia, and other alloys, and is also largely consumed in electric batteries. Symbol Zn. Atomic weight 64.9 [Formerly written also zink.] Butter of zinc (Old Chem.), zinc chloride, ZnCl2, a deliquescent white waxy or oily substance. -- Oxide of zinc. (Chem.) See Zinc oxide, below. -- Zinc amine (Chem.), a white amorphous substance, Zn(NH2)2, obtained by the action of ammonia on zinc ethyl; -- called also zinc amide. -- Zinc amyle (Chem.), a colorless, transparent liquid, composed of zinc and amyle, which, when exposed to the atmosphere, emits fumes, and absorbs oxygen with rapidity. -- Zinc blende Etym: [cf. G. zinkblende] (Min.), a native zinc sulphide. See Blende, n. (a) -- Zinc bloom Etym: [cf. G. zinkblumen flowers of zinc, oxide of zinc] (Min.), hydrous carbonate of zinc, usually occurring in white earthy incrustations; -- called also hydrozincite. -- Zinc ethyl (Chem.), a colorless, transparent, poisonous liquid, composed of zinc and ethyl, which takes fire spontaneously on exposure to the atmosphere. -- Zinc green, a green pigment consisting of zinc and cobalt oxides; -- called also Rinmann's green. -- Zinc methyl (Chem.), a colorless mobile liquid Zn(CH3)2, produced by the action of methyl iodide on a zinc sodium alloy. It has a disagreeable odor, and is spontaneously inflammable in the air. It has been of great importance in the synthesis of organic compounds, and is the type of a large series of similar compounds, as zinc ethyl, zinc amyle, etc. -- Zinc oxide (Chem.), the oxide of zinc, ZnO, forming a light fluffy sublimate when zinc is burned; -- called also flowers of zinc, philosopher's wool, nihil album, etc. The impure oxide produced by burning the metal, roasting its ores, or in melting brass, is called also pompholyx, and tutty. -- Zinc spinel (Min.), a mineral, related to spinel, consisting essentially of the oxides of zinc and aluminium; gahnite. -- Zinc vitriol (Chem.), zinc sulphate. See White vitriol, under Vitriol. -- Zinc white, a white powder consisting of zinc oxide, used as a pigment. 
To coat with zinc; to galvanize. 
Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zinc; zincous. 
, Pertaining to zinc, or having its appearance. [Written also zinky.] 
A small, edible, freshwater European perch (Aspro zingel), having a round, elongated body and prominent snout. 
See Zinc. [Obs.] 
See Zincky. Kirwan. 
Any plant of the composite genus Zinnia, Mexican herbs with opposite leaves and large gay-colored blossoms. Zinnia elegans is the commonest species in cultivation. 
A hill in Jerusalem, which, after the capture of that city by the Israelites, became the royal residence of David and his successors. 
A hissing or sibilant sound such as that made by a flying bullet. 
To make, or move with, such a sound. 
A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually of a brown or gray color. It consists of silica and zirconia. A red variety, used as a gem, is called hyacinth. Colorless, pale-yellow or smoky- brown varieties from Ceylon are called jargon. Zircon syenite, a coarse-grained syenite containing zircon crystals and often also elæolite. It is largely developed in Southern Norway. 
An instrument of music used in Austria and Germany. It has from thirty to forty wires strung across a shallow sounding-board, which lies horizontally on a table before the performer, who uses both hands in playing on it. 
The suslik. [Written also zisel.] 
The tassels of twisted cords or threads on the corners of the upper garment worn by strict Jews. The Hebrew for this word is translated in both the Authorized and Revised Versions (Deut. xxii. 12) by the word "fringes." 
A kind of domestic cattle reared in Asia for its flesh and milk. It is supposed to be a hybrid between the zebu and the yak. 
Same as Socle. 
Of or pertaining to the zodiac; situated within the zodiac; as, the zodiacal planets. Zodiacal light, a luminous tract of the sky, of an elongated, triangular figure, lying near the ecliptic, its base being on the horizon, and its apex at varying altitudes. It is to be seen only in the evening, after twilight, and in the morning before dawn. It is supposed to be due to sunlight reflected from multitudes of meteoroids revolving about the sun nearly in the plane of the ecliptic. 
A peculiar larval stage of certain decapod Crustacea, especially of crabs and certain Anomura. [Written also zoæa.] 
A Jewish cabalistic book attributed by tradition to Rabbi Simon ben Yochi, who lived about the end of the 1st century, a. d. Modern critics believe it to be a compilation of the 13th century. Encyc. Brit. 
Of or pertaining to animals, or animal life. 
See Meride. 
An Asiatic burrowing rodent (Siphneus aspalax) resembling the mole rat. It is native of the Altai Mountains. 
A zone or band; a layer. Zona pellucida. Etym: [NL.] (Biol.) (a) The outer transparent layer, or envelope, of the ovum. It is a more or less elastic membrane with radiating striæ, and corresponds to the cell wall of an ordinary cell. See Ovum, and Illust. of Microscope. (b) The zona radiata. -- Zona radiata Etym: [NL.] (Biol.), a radiately striated membrane situated next the yolk of an ovum, or separated from it by a very delicate membrane only. 
Of or pertaining to a zone; having the form of a zone or zones. Zonal equation (Crystallog.), the mathematical relation which belongs to all the planes of a zone, and expresses their common position with reference to the axes. -- Zonal structure (Crystallog.), a structure characterized by the arrangements of color, inclusions, etc., of a crystal in parallel or concentric layers, which usually follow the outline of the crystal, and mark the changes that have taken place during its growth. -- Zonal symmetry. (Biol.) See the Note under Symmetry. 
A belt or girdle which the Christians and Jews of the Levant were obliged to wear to distinguish them from Mohammedans. [Written also zonnar.] 
Divided by parallel planes; as, zonate tetraspores, found in certain red algæ. 
One of the five great divisions of the earth, with respect to latitude and temperature. 
To girdle; to encircle. [R.] Keats. 
Zonate. 
See Zonar. 
A little zone, or girdle. 
Any one of several of South African lizards of the genus Zonura, common in rocky situations. 
Pertaining to, or resembling, an animal. 
An organic body or cell having locomotion, as a spermatic cell or spermatozooid. 
The wood pigeon. [Prov. Eng.] 
A European fresh-water bream (Abramis ballerus). 
Same as Zorilla. 
Shingles. 
An exclamation formerly used as an oath, and an expression of anger or wonder. 
To stew, as flounders, eels, etc., with just enough or liquid to cover them. Smart. 
The aurochs. 
A stump of a tree. Cowell. 
A little flute or flageolet, especially that which is used to teach birds. [Written also zuffolo.] 
Of or pert. to the Zuñis, or designating their linguistic stock. --n. 
The American widgeon. [Local, U. S.] 
A member of the Bantu race comprising the Zulus and the Kaffirs. 
The most important tribe belonging to the Kaffir race. They inhabit a region on the southeast coast of Africa, but formerly occupied a much more extensive country. They are noted for their warlike disposition, courage, and military skill. 
A tribe of Pueblo Indians occupying a village in New Mexico, on the Zuni River. 
Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the zygoma. Zygomatic arch, the arch of bone beneath the orbit, formed in most mammals by the union of the malar, or jugal, with the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. In the lower vertebrates other bones may help to form it, and there may be two arches on each side of the skull, as in some reptiles. -- Zygomatic process, a process of the temporal or squamosal bone helping to form the zygomatic arch. 
A soluble ferment, or enzyme. See Enzyme. 
The morbific principle of a zymotic disease. Quain. 
Pertaining to, or produced by, fermentation; -- formerly, by confusion, used to designate lactic acid. 
A glutinous substance, insoluble in alcohol, resembling legumin; -- now called vegetable fibrin, vegetable albumin, or gluten casein. 
Invertin. 
See Zythum. 
A kind of ancient malt beverage; a liquor made from malt and wheat. [Written also zythem.] 
